This is Jocopotcast number 161.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
I do the wrong.
And first begin to brawl the secret mischiefs that I set a broach.
I lay unto the grievous charge of others.
Clarence whom I indeed have cast in darkness.
I do bewep to many simple goals, namely to derby Hastings, bucking him, and tell them
to the queen and her allies that stir the king against the Duke, my brother.
And now they believe it, and with all wet me to be revenge on rivers, dorset, gray.
But then I sigh, and with a piece of scripture, tell them that God bids us to good for evil.
And thus I clothe my naked villainy with odd old and stolen out of holy wit and seen
a saint.
When most I play the devil.
And that right there is a few lines from the play, Richard III, written by Good Old William
Shakespeare, the bard.
And clearly, Richard III is made out in this play to be an evil, like 100% evil, political
maneuverer.
That's what he's made out to be.
Sort of the ultimate archetype of the Macavailian Macavailian leader.
And there's people that say, and it's certainly seems that Shakespeare intentionally wrote
him that way.
And there's a bunch of things.
I guess at some point we'll go over the whole play of Richard III.
Let's take a look at the lines.
Because Macavailian, what we think of it when we hear it now, is we think that it means
someone that is completely devious and completely dishonest and completely deceitful in their
quest for power.
Right.
That's what people think of when they think of Macavailian.
And definitely I think Richard III is made to be and was written to be sort of the quintessential
Macavailian character.
Let's look at these lines a little bit because as I said, when we did Henry the Fifth on
podcast number 15, you're not going to know exactly what Shakespeare is talking about because
he's writing in an almost in another language.
So not quite.
You can still understand it.
It doesn't take much, but there's some things going on in there.
So it starts off.
I do the wrong and first begin to brawl.
So what was he saying there?
I am the one that is doing something that is wrong.
I'm the one that's starting the fights.
That's what's going on here.
I'm starting the fights.
And then he says, the secret mischiefs that I set a broach, I lay unto the grievous charge
of others.
So these bad behaviors that he's undertaking, that he's secretly undertaking, he is blaming
them on other people.
He then goes on to say, Clarence, whom I indeed have cast in darkness and you wouldn't
quite understand this.
But unless you read it, but his brother Clarence, he put his brother Clarence into prison.
And then he says, I do bewep to many simple goals.
So in front of other people, he cries and bemoans that, oh poor Clarence, but he thinks
those people are fools.
Namely Derby Hastings and Buckingham, which is what he says in the next line.
And then he says that he tells those same people, he tells those people that it's the
queen and her allies and tell them to his the queen and her allies.
He's saying, like, look, this isn't about me.
It's about the queen.
She's the one that's doing all this.
She's the one that stir the king against the Duke, my brother.
So it's not my fault.
It's the queen.
And then he says, now they believe it and with all with me, meaning they believe it.
And then they're aching him on.
Like you need to.
You can't let that stay.
If you think of that, twist, and try it there.
Like you're setting this up, but then you've got these people actually egging you to take vengeance
on the situation, which is what they're egging him on to do back to the book to be
revenge on rivers, dorsed gray.
But then here's where it, here's where it takes a little, a little switch.
But then I sigh and with a piece of scripture.
He's going to say, and then he's going to quote the Bible.
He says, he tells them that God bids us to good for evil.
Hey, the Bible says we should do good instead of evil.
That's what's going on here.
And then he says, and thus I cloth my naked villainy.
That's a good line.
You gotta be Shakespeare right, that one, right?
Clove my naked villainy.
This is how I dress up my evil plans with odd old ends stolen out of holy rets.
So he dresses up his naked villainy.
Covers his evil plans with little parts of scripture from the Bible.
He closes it and seems a saint when most I play the devil.
So like I said, that's Richard III and things don't really work out that well in the
play for Richard III and they don't, they don't work out for him in real life either.
He was actually hacked to death.
Yeah, which we generally consider to be a bad ending, he was hacked to death at the end
of the Battle of Baudsworth after he fell off of this horse legit.
And there's a famous line which I'm sure everyone's heard a horse or horse making them
for a horse, which is he was losing everything because he fell off of the horse and needed
one.
And like I said, perhaps at some point we'll cover the whole play.
But today, what I wanted to dig into a little bit is this term of Mackey Evelian and we
covered his art of war book, which I had an interesting, I think it was a YouTube comment
because I said, you know, art of war, Mackey Evelian, a colo Mackey Evelian and someone's like
that was written by Sunsu idiot.
And then some trooper came on.
It was like actually he's not talking about that.
I've never heard of it before.
He covered that one here and covered that's owned this by the way.
There's a bunch of different art of wars and here's one of them.
That was indeed written by Mackey Evelian.
So we covered that, but that's not really Mackey Evelian's most famous work.
His most famous work is this book, which we mentioned there.
The Prince and the Prince was thought to have been written around 1513, not really widely
published until 1532, which was five years after Mackey Evelian's death.
Basically, the four runner of kind of leadership books, right?
Is the four runner of self-improvement books.
And it's telling leaders how to lead their Prince of Paladies.
And one thing, and I don't dive too many of these, we're not going to come to many of these,
but it gives real world instructions.
It's kind of like extreme ownership of the dichotomy of leadership.
It gives real situations that happen.
It gives the Prince of Poland, and it's like here's a situation where this actually unfolds in this way.
So it's very thorough in that respect.
And it's considered to be one of the first works of modern political philosophy.
And this is the thing.
It has the reputation of advising people to do whatever it takes to gain and hold power.
That's sort of the word, like I said, the word has really negative connotations.
When someone says, oh, that guy's a Macavalean leader.
You don't think, oh, that's cool.
No, you think, oh, he's underhanded, and he's going to stab people in the back to get where he wants.
And there's definitely some parts where we'll get to it.
But it's not that.
And the approach is much more balanced than people than people than he has.
Then then people generally consider.
It's just a much more balanced perspective.
And like anything that talks about leadership and human nature, we can learn from it.
So let's go to the book, The Prince, by Macavalean.
Starts off here.
Those who strive to, this is an interesting.
He's doing a little, he does some salesy stuff in here too.
And there's a couple of times where I have to, I had to call it.
I'll call it out all, if anybody does some sale lease, salesy type stuff in here.
So here's how we start stuff.
Those who strive to obtain the good graces of a prince are accustomed to come before him with such things as they hold most precious,
or in which they see him to take most delight.
Once one often sees horses, arms, cloth of gold, precious stones, and similar ornaments presented to princes, worthy of their greatness.
So you say, hey, if you want to get good, you know, good graces with a prince, you bring them stuff, horses and gold and whatever.
Then he says, desiring, therefore, to present myself to your magnificent with some testimony of my devotion towards you,
I have not found among my possessions anything which I hold more dear than or value so much as the knowledge of the actions of great men,
acquired by long experience in contemporary affairs and a continual study of antiquity,
which having reflected upon and which having a reflected upon it with great and prolonged diligence, I now send,
digested into a little volume to your magnificence.
That's pretty cool.
He says, look, I could give you gold, but that's not really what's valuable to me.
What's valuable to the most valuable thing I can give you is the knowledge that I have, the knowledge that I've had from studying and living through these things,
and he continues. And although I may consider this work unwordy of your countenance, nevertheless,
I trust much to your, uh, benignity that it may be acceptable, seeing that it is not possible for me to make a better gift than to offer you the opportunity,
opportunity of understanding in the shortest time, all that I have learned in so many years, and with so many troubles and dangers, which work, I have not embellished with swelling or magnificent words,
nor stuffed with rounded periods. So he comes out of the game.
He's a pretty arrogant dude. He's saying, listen, you are so lucky that I went through all this stuff, and I'm taking it to give it to you.
I'm going to give you this little, nice little volume, very plainly written, which is almost like an excuse, right?
Like there's no fancy words here. I'm just giving it to you straight. You know, I, I'm no Shakespeare, well, Shakespeare wasn't even around yet,
but he's saying that it's very plainly written. And then he goes into it. So I think that's a pretty salesy opening, but hey, good to go on him. He's trying to make it happen.
It starts off talking about the difficulties that occur in a new principality. In principalities, you use that word. That's the, what the book is about.
It's when you take over bland from people.
Here we go.
Although one may be very strong in armed forces, yet in entering a province, one has always need of the goodwill of the natives.
That's a great statement. Think about that statement. Think about it from a military perspective. Think about it from a business perspective.
And this is something that the US military should always pay attention to. Hey, you can be strong, and your armed forces can be strong, but you need the goodwill of the natives.
Boom, there you go. Let's think about, let's remember that one in the world.
And we know we do our best to do that. America does its best to do that, but we don't always do a good job.
And then the other thing is when you think about it from a business perspective, when you get an acquisition taking place.
Like it's cool. You go in there and you got all the money to buy some little company, but if they all hate you,
Hey, if you don't have the goodwill of the people that you just bought, you're going to have some issues. I promise you you're going to have some issues.
Next up, those demands which when acquired are added to an ancient state by him who acquires them are either of the same country and language or they are not.
So he's saying, look, when you take someone over, they're either with the same language or they don't have the same language.
When they are, it is easier to hold them, especially when they have not been accustomed to self government.
So if you take someone over and they speak your language and they've, you know, you took them over from someone else that was controlling them.
They'll be okay with that because they're not used to controlling themselves anyways.
Then he goes on, but when states acquired in a country differing language, customs or laws, there are difficulties.
And good fortune and great energy are needed to hold them and one of the greatest and most real helps would be that he who has acquired them should go reside there.
So if they don't speak your language, if it's the different culture, guess what, you've got to go there and you've got to stay there.
Otherwise, it's going to be a problem.
So they're going to move there to, so they can gain more understanding.
Game more understanding and learn the language and stuff like that.
And also be there because you've got to be able to pay attention when rebellion is going to form against it.
If you're not there and they speak a different language, you have a darker culture and you're not in the game.
You're going to have some issues.
Yeah, you're going to get blindsided.
So you've got to go in there.
You've got to get deep.
You've got to occupy that territory.
Continuing on, men ought either to be well treated or crushed.
They read that one again.
Men ought either to be well treated or crushed because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries.
Of more serious ones, they cannot.
Therefore, the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge.
So there's kind of classic Mackey of Alien fought.
Yeah.
If you're going to hurt someone, just completely annihilate them to the best of your ability.
Don't give them the ability to come back at you again.
Yeah.
And then on the other hand, treat them super good, right?
Yeah, treat them good.
You treat them good or you crush them.
Yeah.
It's a good statement, right?
And it takes something that it takes, you know, the will to completely destroy someone.
It takes a lot of gall, right?
You have to have the stomach to be able to do that.
Yeah.
And a lot of people don't have the stomach to do that.
So that's why I would say in most cases, it's better to treat people well and have them come and board.
And he actually says that too, but we'll get there.
Back to the book, in maintaining armed men, their in place of colonies, one spends much more having to consume on the garrison, all of the income from the states that the whole acquisition turns into a loss and many more are exasperated because the whole state is injured.
That's what he's saying. So when you do have to go in and you have to smash and you have to keep people there to keep smashing, guess what? You're spending all this money.
You're investing all these people.
And it's so hard to keep it under control that it's not even worth it.
The acquisition turns into a loss.
So from a business perspective, you go into a company, you buy them, but then they're rebellious.
So you got to fire everyone, they got to bring people in and retrain them and you got to retake territory and you lost customers because they're going to be in a company.
You lost customers because you didn't support during that time.
And so you invest all this money and guess what your acquisition ends up becoming a loss.
Whereas, if you had a good relationship with these people and you went in there and you were able to kind of come on board with your culture and the way you were doing thing.
Also, and you move into a good scenario.
Yeah.
Keep it. Keep it.
Friendly if you can.
Back to the book.
What all prudent princes ought to do who have to regard not only present troubles, but also future ones for which they must prepare with every energy because when first scene, it is easy to remedy them.
But if you wait until they approach, the medicine is no longer in time because the malady has become incurable.
There's some good stuff in this book and this is one of them. This is kind of obvious.
But hey, you need to look to the future and when there's a problem coming, cut it off early.
The earlier you solve the problem, the easier it's going to be. He continues.
For it happens in this as the physicians say it happens in hectic fever.
Then in the beginning of the malady, it is easy to cure, but difficult to detect.
But in the course of time, not having been either detected or treating in the beginning, it becomes easy to detect.
But difficult to cure.
It's like getting caught in our mock.
If you see it coming, it's easy.
You just move your shoulder. You move your hips a little bit, whatever you're out.
The further it goes down that path, the worse the situation gets.
And it's the same thing.
Also, you know what I've talked about having hard conversations with people.
The earlier you have that hard conversation, the easier the hard conversation is to have.
The longer you let it go, not only is it a harder conversation, but it's a conversation that's going to disrupt and cause more problems.
It's going to interfere with our relationship.
If I have that hard conversation, you are really, our relationship isn't getting better, right?
It's getting worse.
So the easier you solve these problems, the better off you're going to be.
It continues. This happens in affairs of state.
For when the evils that arise have been for scene, which it is only given to a wise man to see,
they can be quickly redressed.
But when through not having been for scene, they have been permitted to grow in a way that everyone can see them.
There is no longer a remedy.
Keep your ears to the ground.
So you've got to hear what's coming.
Therefore, the Romans for seeing troubles dealt with them at once.
And even to avoid a war would not let them come to a head.
For they knew that war is not to be avoided, but is only to be put off to the advantage of others.
So every time you delay in getting that problem solved, you're not helping yourself.
That's a good way to think about that.
I haven't really thought about that way before.
I talk about the hard conversations to have them earlier.
You're going to be easier.
If you're putting those wars off, you're only helping the other person.
You're only putting yourself into a worse situation.
Okay, so the other person meaning the enemy?
Yeah, you're only helping the enemy.
So attack those problems.
Look, well, I think the first thing is pay attention.
You've got to pay attention to those problems that could be arising.
Hard to detach.
Hard to detachers.
And then I like he says it when everyone can see him.
It's too late.
You're late.
So you've got to be gathering in intelligence.
You've got to be paying attention.
Back to the book because one can easily enter there by gaining over some barren of the kingdom.
For one always finds mal contents and such as desire a change.
So he's talking about when you're taking someone when you're taking over like a kingdom,
you can always find some people in the kingdom that are not happy with the situation.
Like you can go into a company and you can say,
It seems like you're the way your process is working.
It's a real hard on you guys.
Seems like they're not really invent.
You can always find some people that are mad inside of a kingdom.
Yeah.
That's what he's saying.
He's saying to find them.
Yeah.
Well, he hears he goes on.
He says, such men for the reasons given can open the way into a state and render victory easy.
But if you wish to hold it afterwards,
you meet with infinite difficulties.
Both from those you have assisted and those you have crushed.
Nor is it enough for you to have exterminated the family of the prince because the lords
that remain make themselves the heads of fresh movements against you.
And as you are unable to either satisfy or exterminate them,
the state is lost whenever the time brings the opportunity.
What you're dealing with there,
if you're entering, if you find some people that are disloyal inside of a company
and then you go and become friends with them,
and then you go and take the company over.
There's a chance.
And what he's saying is like that disloyalty is a trait.
They're going to be disloyalty too.
So you need to.
And you can't crush them.
You can't exterminate them because
you've developed a relationship with them.
And at the same time,
you can't trust them.
Yeah.
So be careful with that.
Back to the book.
Whenever those states which have been acquired as stated above,
have been accustomed to live under their own laws and in freedom.
There are three courses for those who wish to hold them.
So obviously, I'm skipping big chunks of the book.
But what he's talking about is when you've taken over somewhere,
that is used to having their own laws and used to living in freedom.
There's three different, three different methods or approaches you can take.
If you want to hang onto him.
Here we go.
The first is to ruin them.
The next is to reside there in person.
The third is to permit them to live under their own laws,
drawing a tribute and establishing within it,
an oligarchy which will keep it friendly to you.
Very clever.
Very smart too.
And I see, again, I keep going back to business a lot because
when you're dealing with a company that acquires other companies.
This is very real.
If you've got a company, let's say you acquire,
let's say you acquire a part of a company that's been run by some senior company.
Like a parent company.
They're not used to making their own decisions.
So when you come in and say, hey, now we're going to help you out.
You're going to be kind of going along.
We lost now.
You're under our command.
If they're used to being commanded, they're like, okay, new boss,
we're going to deal with it.
But if they were, if they were their own company,
they were on their own and they were doing whatever they wanted.
They were living in total freedom.
And now you're coming.
Now you're going to start listening to my rules.
Yeah.
You're going to be a problem.
Now I don't agree with the fact that you have to crush them.
I would prefer that you go in and form a relationship with them.
But what are you saying is, look, if you go in there,
so let's say I took over Echo's company and you were used to freedom.
And I was just like, hey, Echo, here's what's going on.
Hey, here's some broad guidance, but I really like what you're doing.
Keep doing it, man.
Keep doing it.
And then, you know, here's what you're going to pay me,
because I'm giving you some support.
And you'd be like, okay.
Now what I will say, which he doesn't go into is over time.
I can start to get first of all, build a relationship with you.
Once I build a relationship with you, then I can start saying, hey, Echo,
if you thought about doing this, it's a little bit different over here.
And hey, Echo, what about this?
And hey, Echo, this other company that we own does it this way,
and it's really efficient.
Would you consider maybe seeing how that would work inside your, with your team?
Yeah.
And so I would slowly move, but for me to come in and say, okay, Echo,
we just close the deal.
Here's the new, yes.
That's when you go, hey, you go to your troops and say, I don't know if this is a good call.
And I don't know, these guys think they know everything,
and now it's something we got to rebel you know, in our hands.
Yep.
So now I might have to crush it.
Right.
The whole idea of crushing seems pretty old school.
Yeah.
So in and as he said, when once you crush something,
well, then you got to invest all kinds of things in it too.
Like hey, so let's say, let's say I bought your company,
and then you, you know, you rebel against me, so I fired you.
Well, now I got to bring someone up.
I got to find someone that understands your business and the intricacies your business.
And guess what, that's not easy.
And guess what?
Now I got to invest all this time in myself,
and I got to bring some some contractors in there to help out.
I'm next thing you know, I'm upside down.
Yeah.
Where's if I had just done a good deal with you and, you know,
kind of let you run things for a while and let build a relationships that you actually would want to listen to me.
That's different. That's better.
Yeah.
So yes, the idea of crushing people generally,
it's your, it's not the preferred method.
It's not ideal.
Generally.
Sometimes it's required.
Yes. Sometimes people need to get destroyed.
That's the way it is.
Yeah.
And when that's the way cool.
That's how I like it.
Lock the load.
Destroy it.
Did you watch football or do you watch football?
I don't watch football. I don't watch football.
If you run, a lot is he's old school.
Yes.
I do know what he's doing.
40 minors back in the year.
Yeah.
I don't know if this true, but it's a rumor.
I don't know. This is what I heard when I was young.
Where he would like, he broke his finger.
Hmm.
He's pinkier.
I don't know.
One of his fingers. He broke it.
And, you know, he's trying to, you know, play.
You got to play his professional football players.
So he can't just be out because you're finger.
So he play.
You tape it up in a cap just getting jammed up.
Hmm.
So he just cut it off.
Yeah.
I don't know if you can see it.
Get rid of the finger, but you don't have a finger.
But if the thing is, like, you know,
jamming you up too much by being there, then you got to craft it.
I heard a story, similar story about Valige.
Valige is male.
You know what?
The jujitsu player?
Yeah.
Crazy.
Jujitsu player.
Great jujitsu player.
But he had crazy, colleague flower ears.
Yeah.
They just look like two, two, half ten, half baseball ball.
And he just got a little bit of a hammer inside of his head.
Yeah.
And I heard a story about him that he was just asking the doctor
just caught him off.
Just caught him off.
Just get rid of him.
No use.
All they do is cause me problems.
Just get rid of him.
Yeah.
So he's that kind.
Is that kind of a hardcore kind of?
Yeah.
Because I'm sure the, well, then again,
I guess it depends on the problems, right?
And because that's what they're using.
What do your ears do for you?
I guess they catch some sound and bring it into your ears.
Yes.
That's not hunting, right?
And you don't necessarily need to hear super well.
And by the way, I want you to have cauliflower ears.
And it starts going into your ear a little bit.
Yes.
That's not good either for your hearing.
So he's hearing might improve.
Just get rid of those things.
Yeah, I guess they've been so bad as comfortable.
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah.
I didn't know what you're saying.
The, you know, cutting off your ears is a lot more
that goes into that than a finger, I think,
because, you know, I don't know.
I mean, on a social level, you know, you get a guy with ears cut off on purpose, by the way.
It's kind of like, okay.
Yeah, I don't know.
I like a little bit next level.
Let's say you're a girl and you're like, hey, mom,
I'm dead.
But it might never have you never thought about, like,
if you've read a cauliflower ear?
No, okay.
Sometimes when you get cauliflower ear,
and it's preventing you from training,
there's no doubt that the thought goes through your mind, like, you know what?
Hey, I'm in the game.
You know, these things aren't doing me much good.
Let me just get rid of these.
Yes.
I could see how that could be, I guess,
but sorry, man, I can't get there.
No, with the ears.
Maybe the fingers, I dig the fingers.
I'm sure.
See, to me, so you can't, there's certain things you can't do if you lose your fingers.
I eat play guitar.
Yeah, you can.
So I'd be a problem then, Jim.
Yeah, so I keep the fingers more than the ears.
You know, I'll get your voice back.
You're the fingers.
I don't mind.
You know what?
You're more sensitive to your appearance, I think, than I am.
aesthetically conscious.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, I would agree with that, sir.
Yes.
I dig so.
So you get your ears.
I'm keeping my fingers.
Yeah, so I'll hammer on that, give box.
Deal.
Check.
Well, that went off the rails a little bit.
Mm-hmm.
That's right.
All right.
Going back to the book,
a wise man always to follow the paths beaten by great men
and to imitate those who have been supreme.
So that if his ability does not equal theirs, at least it will save
of it.
Let him act like the clever archers.
Who?
This is a good little statement.
Let him act like the clever archers.
Who designed to hit the mark which yet appears too far
distant and knowing the limits to which the strength of their
bow attains, tank, take aim much higher than the mark.
Not to reach them by their strength or arrow to so great a height.
But to be able to with the aid of so high and aim hit the mark they
which they wish to reach.
That's a very clever way of putting it.
Yeah.
Hey, look, if I don't think I can hit this mark,
I'm just going to aim a little bit higher.
And then even though I might not reach the highest mark,
I'll at least hit the mark.
I'll get where I want to be.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fully.
That's a good way to go through life.
Yeah, there's a lot of that.
I mean, that's, you know, that's a,
the tactic technique, whatever, and like a lot of things like
negotiation.
They say they do the same thing, right?
Okay, I want to get, you know, I don't know, you go job interview
whatever.
I want to make 100,000, so I'm going to ask for like 120.
He's going to negotiate down and I get my 100.
No, that's, that's true.
Where this thing I think sometimes people get this out of hand
is it'll be like a sales organization.
And they'll say, you know, they want to bring in.
They want to do $5 million worth of sales in the next month.
And so they say, okay, guys, is what we're going to do.
10 million.
And they said an unrealistic goal.
We said an unrealistic goal that's not achievable.
It's basically a meaningless goal.
So you have to, you have to aim a little bit high, but it's got to be realistic.
Yeah.
And I would think, you know, I'm just going off how I felt right there
when you said that, you know, someone said to us unrealistic goal,
especially for you, that includes you, you know,
where like the failure of reaching that goal is kind of, you're partly your failure.
I think you'd kind of decrease my enthusiasm.
I've put in a sample.
Yeah.
You need it.
That's why people need to be very careful in how they set their goals.
That they set them high enough that it,
you try and get to it.
And maybe you don't quite get there.
Because let's face it.
If you set a goal and you just easily make it,
you should have set your goal a little bit higher.
So if you set a goal and it's not even close,
no one even tries.
Yeah.
So you got to set a realistic goal.
Otherwise, not going to work well.
Yeah.
And like people will be like,
let's especially at work when people start setting goals all crazy.
Yeah.
That's what I was talking about.
But, well, I was just watching the movie Major League.
Remember that one?
Oh, the first one.
I tried to remember what it was about.
And they were like baseball.
It was this thing where they,
they, they, the owner was trying to like sell the team or something.
But for her to do that, they had to like lose all the games.
Or something like that.
And if they didn't lose and she would just replace the players with other players who would lose.
You know, kind of thing.
So it was, so everyone was all down about it.
And the guy was like, well, there's only one thing to do with the whole thing.
You know, like that, right, which is a, I dig it.
Right.
But at like a regular job,
well, it was for the movie too, obviously. So you got to have an inspirational story line.
But anyway, at your job, you know, let's say there's numbers week earlier.
And then it's like, okay, dang, you're making me meet these crazy numbers.
And they're unrealistic.
They're above the normal good goal.
They're way above.
So it's like, okay, what does this mean now?
Now, like, probably can't spend time with my family.
Okay, now you're going to freaking dry us into the ground, working and do all this stuff.
Whatever.
Going against my interests, you know, as a human being.
So I'm going to feel junk about that. I'm not going to like that.
No, no one does. That's my point.
Even no one likes in the business world.
And no one liked it.
It made you leave either.
It's a well, that's, you know, different.
They did like it.
Check.
All right, moving on.
Now, as the fact of becoming a prince from private station presupposes either ability or fortune.
And he's the word forchalot to mean like pretty much luck.
It is clear that one or the other of these things will mitigate in some degree many difficulties.
Nevertheless, he was relied least on fortune is established the strongest.
Makes sense. So when you, when you're in a leadership position, if you got there because you're lucky,
it's going to be harder for you to maintain good position as a leader.
You got there because of your skill.
And what's the other thing he says?
Because your ability, if you get there because your ability, people will respect you more.
They're just, you just got there by luck.
Those who by valorous ways become princes acquire a principality with difficulty, but they keep it with ease.
The difficulties they have in acquiring it rise in part from the new rules and method methods,
which they are forced to introduce to establish their government and its security.
So when you have a hard time getting into power and you do it by boldness, once you're there,
it's going to be easier for you to do it because you had to make all these maneuvers.
You had to figure things out in order to get there.
Continuing, and it ought to be remembered that there is nothing more difficult.
This is a good one. There is nothing more difficult to take in hand, more perilous to conduct,
or more uncertain in its success than to take the lead in the introduction of a new order of things.
So there's nothing harder than trying to come in and introduce a new order of things, nothing harder than that.
And here's the reasons, because the innovator has for enemies, all those who have done well under the old conditions,
and Luke warm defenders in those who may do well under the new.
So you get people that are entrenched at like, hey man, we've been doing this for 20 years, I'm not changing it.
And he got someone else saying, well, it could work better.
That's like, it's not a good comparison. It's not a fair fight.
Because those people that are already know at works, they know at works. They got someone that I think the new thing will work.
It's a mismatch.
Continuing on, this coolness arises partly from fear of the opponents who have the walls on their side,
and partly from the incredulity of men who do not readily believe in new things until they have had long experience of them.
So you get people that have been doing this forever, like I just said, you got someone that hasn't really figured out if this new thing is going to work, and it's just a mismatch.
So there's skeptical.
Continuing, those who solely by good fortune become princes from being private citizens have little trouble in rising,
but much trouble in keeping a top. They have not had any difficulties on the way up because they fly.
But they have many when they reach the summit. This is a good one.
The people that kind of get lucky and end up in a senior position in a leadership position, they got lucky.
And so there's no trouble getting there, they got lucky. They flew there.
But then he says they have trouble when they reach the summit. Continue on, such are those to whom some state is given either for money or by favor of him who bestows it.
So, you know, you see this going through Buds actually.
There's some people that were like incredible athletes, and they never failed anything before in their life,
and all of us and they show up and they start failing things, and it breaks them.
Or they're great athletes going through Buds.
And it's because if you're a great athlete, well, and Buds is kind of easy.
And then you show up at a sealed team, things aren't easy because it's not just athletics in the sealed team.
It's not an athletic game in the sealed team.
As a matter of fact, I was just talking about this the other day.
The athletic capability of a seal or of a special operation.
It's like, sure, you get some great athletes in there, but you put on a rock sack and hump, you know, ten kilometers.
That's not an athletically gifted.
You as an athletic, it's not an athletic skill test, you know, it's not like, yeah, you got to be a good shape for sure.
But whether this guy played college football and this guy didn't,
you put on that rock sack and start humpin', you can't tell who's who.
Yeah.
You know, occasionally you might be able to.
You got to, you can make some assumptions at the athletic football player, you know, he's an athletic person, but it's not an athletic game.
Yeah.
The same with like shooting.
Look, okay, you get some of that's got great hand, good eye coordination.
They're probably going to be a pretty good shot.
Not necessarily though.
I knew some guys that were great athletes, weren't good shots.
Yeah.
And vice versa.
You see some guys that were great athletes and they were great shots, they had great hand eye coordination.
So it's not really, there's not really this athletic challenge.
So my point is you get someone that sails through buds because they're a great athlete, because buds is more of an athletic pursuit.
I mean, it's like, okay, you got to run.
You got to do pull ups.
You got to do the opposite course.
There's more athleticism involved in getting through buds.
Once you get through buds, then it's like, oh, you have to think.
You have to gut through hard things while you're thinking.
So there's some guys that I went through with, like, a little tripped up when they got to the teams.
Even though they did not have a hard time at all with buds, they got to the teams.
They got tripped up on things because they just, they just kind of got in their own way.
You know, unfortunately.
Good, good guys, hard guys, but you just think, man, just you need to think a little bit more.
Yeah.
Feeling with certain mental anguish while you do other things.
Feeling with it.
Yeah.
You got to make decisions when you're tired.
You got to stay awake when you're tired.
You got to, yeah, like all those things.
Oh, there's stress going on and you're freaking out.
Well, that's what you still got to decide that you got to make something happen.
And then you got to go do it.
Yeah.
Which easy to just go curl up in a ball.
Right?
No.
Take a nap.
Yeah.
Continuing such and he's talking about these people that were kind of given luck or bought their way into their positions.
Such stands simply elevated upon the goodwill and the fortune of him who has elevated them.
Two most inconsistent and unstable things.
Neither have they the knowledge requisite for the position because unless they are men of great worth and ability,
does not reasonable to expect that they should know how to command having always lived in private condition.
They're going to get thrown into a leadership position and they haven't done anything to earn their position here.
They're going to mean experience is going to be hard for him.
Yeah.
Same thing with, I mean, maybe you see it now, maybe you don't.
But our, in Gigiitu, where, you know, the, you know, a young guy or whatever, he'll, he'll,
or he'll have a certain body type or I don't know whatever he'll develop like this certain move.
Mm-hmm.
That'll be kind of new, terrible.
Like no one's ever seen this, this system or this move or whatever.
And no get guys, you know, get guys and win tournaments and start winning tournaments and be like,
and that instructs like, dang, this guy's killing these tournaments here.
Let's give him his blue belt, brown belt, you know, all the way up he gets his like brown belt black belt because he wins tournament.
Dang.
More so then because of like his well rounded.
Yes, skill set and knowledge.
So which kind of makes sense, right?
I mean, shoot if he's winning, if he's tapping everyone out in the tournament in, you know,
all the lower belt, of course he can just belt make sense.
But later on, you know, as time goes on and one of the things is like, okay,
they'll just figure out the move.
Yeah.
Figure out the answer to that move, what else is left?
Nothing.
Isn't it crazy that if you know the move?
Like isn't it crazy, Gigiitu, first of all, that if you know how to defend something,
you can stop something.
If you don't know it, you get tapped.
If you know it, you can get out.
Yes.
That's so crazy.
And what's really crazy is that's the way life is.
That's the way leadership is.
Like when I talk to companies and I'll be talking to some leader and I'm like,
Hey, here's what you need to say in a situation like this.
And it's like they can now escape this position that the red because they can,
Oh, oh yeah, here's what you should say.
Yeah.
And they say, oh, you can see it looking their eyes.
And then they'll call me and say, dude, I did that.
Yeah.
You would like it.
The whole team turned around.
So, oh yeah, big shocker.
There's moves that you can make.
There's tactical maneuvers that you can make.
And if you know them, you'll escape the position.
If you don't know them, you'll get destroyed.
Yeah.
And so, to where you're going with this is sometimes somebody develop something
or they get really good at something.
And as soon as some people know it's coming, they can just stop it.
And then all of a sudden they start losing tournaments.
They get to purple belt.
They start losing tournaments.
Yeah, because of that.
And I was going to say, see, it's unrealistic in my opinion,
that someone would be really good at a move and go all the way to black belt.
Based on that move.
That's not realistic.
Yeah.
They'll get somebody, people will figure out,
and they'll have to round out their game before they get brown belt.
Black belt.
Yeah.
Right.
You were getting a little crazy there.
Yeah.
More for the example, but there is this one.
And I don't know the girl's name, but it was,
it was, I don't know the girl's name, but she was a brown belt.
But she had been a brown belt.
Like she took her like two years or so.
It's something super fast.
To get to brown belt.
Because of, if I'm not mistaken, she would do like a reverse triangle all the time.
Maybe a regular triangle, not sure.
And then, I don't know.
Then I think it, I could be getting the names wrong.
But I think it was Penny Thomas, and she ended up fighting for Penny Tom,
some Penny Tom's to be here.
And, you know, the new hotness, the new girl coming up, whatever.
And I think it was Joel, who mentioned like this exact thing that he's talking about.
Where it's like, yeah, like, to be a real brown belt and compete at the top level,
you've got to have a well-rounded game, essentially.
You know, because you can't just, you can't just like what you said.
Like, you make it up to brown and black for a reason.
Brown and black belt, you can't just do it with one move.
Yeah.
Because that's not what a brown belt is.
And that's what, when you get someone that's really good, they know about all the different moves.
Yeah.
It always surprised me.
Dean will be able to answer a question about moves that he doesn't actually do in a normal basis.
Yeah.
Like, yeah.
He knows exactly how to do it.
He knows how to defend it.
He knows how to set it up, but he doesn't actually do that move.
And that's how good you got to be.
Yeah.
The other weird thing is, you catch someone like Dean in a position that's totally new.
You know, to some random, and he actually knows like a thing to do to get out of it.
Right.
You know?
Yeah.
And you think, how do you, like, how do you know that?
And we're like, like, leg ride position.
He's like, oh, if you turn your knee outward and then you pinch your ankles, you'll, you'll,
it'll make them adjust.
Then you can come up on the arm and you can get out and you're like, wait.
Yeah.
How do you know that?
I've never been in this position.
I've been doing this for 25 years.
I've never been in this position before.
Now you're telling me that this is just, you know this.
That's right.
And he probably, some of these positions, he's probably never been in.
It's like, codes, like, writing code, where if you kind of know the certain, like, general rules to things,
you can start figuring out, you know?
Like, and someone like Dean, who's like, I mean, Dean, that should, you know, but that's a thing.
There's a difference between what I'm talking about because what I'm talking about is he actually knows
specifically he's not like, hey, here's what would work based on the general rules of grappling.
He's like, no, here's what you do in this specific situation.
That is weird.
Yeah.
But that's just completely well rounded.
That's just completely well rounded.
So you're saying that at some point he, he has had that experience with that moon.
Yes, he's one where another.
Yeah.
Done it somewhere another and he said, oh, or he's done a much narrower approach of what you're talking about.
Like he is not maybe not that exact thing, but it's so close that he's like, here's what happens.
And here's what's going on.
Yeah.
It's like, yeah.
Similar, but not the same.
Like he goes beyond just having the principles.
It's like principles coupled with experience.
Yes.
Yeah.
Coupled with knowledge.
And Dean's mind for that is really, it's crazy.
It's uncanny.
You know, with that, as far as like his knowledge and what he can sort of figure out, I would have.
It's almost like while you're doing what you do during the day, he's like in a room just thinking about it.
You would think.
You would think that.
You would think that he's sitting around with like four screens, like YouTube screens.
And he's watching different things at once.
And then he has some sort of like weird control where he can get view different angles and help
him. But no, he has a weird because I know he doesn't do that.
Yeah.
He used to do it though.
But he has a weird.
He's got his mind.
It's just made to do that.
His mind just has a greater understanding of it than a normal person.
Yeah.
And even an abnormal person.
But yeah, that makes sense.
Like, you know, if you're, if you're thorough or thoroughly trained or a lot of experience.
You've been through the pitfalls up to down. You know, you kind of that light is kind of on for you.
But if you just sort of lock out.
Well, yeah. You know, we work with companies who work with like startup companies where it's not that the people haven't
Scrapped to get where they are.
But, you know, you get funded and you got 12 people on your team.
And then all of a sudden you get a massive funding and you're expecting to roll into production or something.
And you look up and you got 180 people.
You don't have any experiences of leader.
Yeah.
And you're expected to lead.
And that's, you know, a situation that echelon front gets involved in because the investors will come and say,
Hey, look, we got these guys over here. They're awesome guys. They're working hard.
Guess what? They got propelled in this position.
They're awesome at their job.
They don't know how to lead yet. Can you help them?
Yes, that's what we do.
Well, and then make it happen.
Makes sense.
Can you can't expect someone to know how to lead if they've never been in a leadership position before?
Yeah.
Can some people pull it off? Yes. It's not a big number, though.
It's not a big number.
Continuing.
Ooh, this is a good one.
He who has not first laid his foundations may be able with great ability to lay them afterwards,
but they will be laid with trouble to the architect and danger to the building.
So lay a good foundation.
This is another, another thing that's important when it comes to Gitu.
Don't be learning the GoGo Plata day four.
But they're just so fun.
No, no, no.
People want to learn that GoGo Plata.
Yeah.
And they don't know how to do a straight arm lock.
That's a problem.
And that's why though, right?
I mean, even like this, that's why people won't focus on the foundation.
Because that part's not as fun short-term payoff types.
It's a very...
More fun.
It's GoGo Plata is more fun.
Well, look at that. It looks fancy. It looks cool.
Yeah.
I think it was Dean's teaching a class and he was teaching a...
I kind of fall for something like that.
Not for a long time, just a little bit.
And then he was teaching like a position and whatever.
This is actually a while ago.
And then towards the end, he was like, all right, all right, all right.
I'll kind of like, no one said anything like,
Hey, when are we going to learn blah, blah, blah?
He'd no one said anything, but Dean said it as if people were saying,
well, when are we going to learn something fun kind of thing?
Dean was like, all right, I'll teach you a submission.
Kind of like, yeah, you know, because he knew he knows like,
the submission hold is the fun part to learn.
In GJ2. I mean, it's far as a spectrum.
Especially when you start.
Yes.
When you start.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, fully, fully.
Because you just, you know, you think, oh, well, I don't understand why it's good for me to lay this way on some other.
Yeah.
Or just rip across the room.
Who?
Like, what the heck is that?
That's hard.
That's laying a good foundation.
That's what that is.
That's true.
Otherwise, you've got to do it and it's going to be hard to do.
Same thing with businesses when you start a business,
start it with a good foundation.
So you don't have to go back in there afterwards and
perform surgery on something that's already been constructed.
All right.
Now, this is Macy Evelian in a pretty serious way.
The name of this one is called, or this is, I would say,
this is kind of what stems some of the reputation.
Concerning those who have obtained a principality by wickedness.
And I said this establishes, but this actually goes against sort of that standard
Macy Evelian attitude.
So here we go.
This is one of the historical examples that he gives that I'm actually going to read
because it's pretty, pretty cool.
A gathachlise, the Sicilian became king of Syracuse, not only from a private,
but from a low and abject position.
This man, the son of a potter, through all the changes in his fortunes,
always led an infamous life.
Nevertheless, he accompanied his infamies with so much ability of mind and body,
having devoted himself to the military profession.
He rose through the, it's ranks to be Prater of Syracuse.
Being established in that position and having deliberately resolved to make
himself Prince and to seize by violence without obligation to others,
that which had been considered to him by a scent,
he came to an understanding for this purpose with the, with amacar,
the carthineogen, who, with his army, was fighting in Sicily.
One morning, he assembled the people and the Senate of Syracuse.
As if he had to discuss with them things relating to the Republic.
And at a given signal, the soldiers killed all the senators and the richest of the people.
These dead, he seized and held the princentum of that city without any civil
commotion.
And although he was twice routed by the carthaginians, he ultimately,
and ultimately besieged, yet not only was he able to defend his city,
but leaving part of his man for its defense,
with others he attacked Africa and in a short time raised the siege of Syracuse.
The carthaginians reduced to extreme necessity,
were compelled to come to terms with a goffacleys and leaving Sicily
to him had to be content with the possession of Africa.
So this guy is just gets after it and destroys people and kills people
in order to get into a good position.
You might think that McEvelli would say, hey, that's great.
Here's what he actually says back to the book.
Yet it cannot be called talent to slay fellow citizens,
to deceive friends, to be without faith, without mercy, without religion,
such methods may gain empire, but not glory.
Still, if the courage of a gothiclies in entering into the end,
and extricating himself from the dangers be considered,
together with his greatness of mind and enduring and overcoming hardships,
it cannot be seen why he should be less esteemed than the most notable captain.
Oh, that he is. Give it a little credit.
But then he goes back again, never the less has barberus cruelty and inhumanity
with infinite wickedness, do not permit him to be celebrated among the most excellent men,
what he had achieved, what he achieved cannot be attributed to either fortune or genius.
So, and I'll go one step further, because this is what I think.
I think that when you behave in that manner, it'll come back to you.
It'll come back to you, and I'm not saying it's going to come back to you
to the carmic way, dude. That's not what I'm saying.
I'm saying when you inflict damage on people, they remember it.
And there will be a time, in some point, when they will have the opportunity
to rain down vengeance upon you. So, if you act that way, you're going to get yours.
And so, if you treat people with respect and you treat people as you would like to be treated,
then it's fine. And when the opportunity arises for them to cross you, they'll remember how you treated them
and you treat them well and they say, okay, you know what, we're going to give this guy a pass.
When you screw people over, they're going to screw you back at some point.
Yeah.
Continuing on, it has to be remarked that in seizing a state, the use surper ought to examine
closely all those injuries which it is necessary for him to inflict and do them all at one stroke.
So, as to not have to repeat them daily and thus by not unsettling men, he will be able to reassure
them and win them to himself by benefits. This is a good one.
If you've got to cause damage, rip the band it off. That's what he said.
So, if you're going into a business and you're like, okay, we're going to have to eliminate some people.
Don't eliminate two guys today and then two guys in a week and then three days, three guys in a month and three people in two weeks.
And you just, everyone now everyone's walking around their scared of getting destroyed. They're scared of getting fired.
They don't trust you. You go and you go, okay, hey, here's sorry.
Hey, there's some changes. There's some reductions we've got to make. Here it is. There's 28 people.
They're going away. What's left? We're going to go forward.
We're going to conquer. He who does otherwise either from timidity or evil advice is always compelled to keep the knife in his hand.
Neither can he rely on his subjects nor can they attach themselves to him owing to their continued and repeated wrongs.
So you keep stabbing people. Everyone's in a while, every two or three days. I cut someone's head off. These guys are just, you know, first of all, I got to walk around with a knife all the time and they're thinking, oh, I see what he's all about.
Continuing for injuries ought to be done all at one time so that being tasted less. They offend less benefits ought to be given little by little so that the flavors of them may last longer.
So you don't go and give everyone a yearly bonus at the beginning of the year. Hey, here's all this money. There you go. Hey, look is good, quarter or good month last month. Got to some point.
That tastes less long.
Yes, it does.
I recommend that with children, by the way.
Okay. You know what I'm saying? Yes. You don't give them the big reward. You make them. You got to earn it.
Yeah, to get to earn it. Yeah. Keep it going. Keep it going.
Continuing and above all things, a prince ought to live amongst his people in such a way that no unexpected circumstances, whether of good or evil shall make him change.
Because if the necessity for this comes in trouble times, you are too late for harsh measures and mild ones will not help you for they will be considered as forced from you and no one will be under any obligation to you for them. So what are you saying? There's stay balanced.
So if you if things are going well in your company and you're like, hey, bonus is all around.
And then all of a sudden things get lean and you're like, no more bonuses.
Or the other hand is like, oh, things are going rough.
Like, we're not giving anyone anything. What you need to do is stay balanced. Hey, here's the budget. Here's our projected budget. Here's what we're going to give out. Here's what we're planning to give out.
It may vary a little bit on, you know, upper down from there depending on the market, depending on how we're doing, depending on what the future like you want to be balanced.
Don't go hardcore and want extreme or the other. Next.
Where a leading citizen becomes the prince of his country, not by wickedness or any intolerable violence, but by the favor of his fellow citizens, this may be called a civil principality.
Nor is genius or fortune altogether necessary to attain it, but rather a happy shrewdness. And this seems to be the most positive thing that he, this happy shrewdness. Like, oh, you're making good decision, shrewd decisions. And that's how you come into power and people are happy with it.
Like that seems like the best possible way to take over according to this, continuing one cannot by fair dealing.
And without injury to others satisfy the nobles, but if you can satisfy the people for their object is more righteous than that of the nobles, the latter wishing to oppress and the former only desire not to be oppressed.
So who's more important? The nobles or the people? The people? That's not very mac-evalient.
Or it's not the tradition, mac-evalient consideration.
It is to be added also that a prince can never secure himself against a hostile people, because of their being too many, whilst from nobles he can secure himself as they are few and number.
Hmm, make a connection with your people, continuing. The worst that a prince may expect from a hostile people is to be abandoned by them. But from hostile nobles, he is not only to fair abandonment, but also that they will rise against him for they being in these affairs more farceing in a suit, always come forward in a time to save themselves and to obtain favors from him whom they expect to prevail.
And he goes on about these nobles a little bit more. Nobles ought to be looked at mainly in two ways.
They either shape their course in such a way as binds them entirely to your fortune or they don't. So there's two different kinds of people you'll have with you.
People that just get on board or don't. They get on board or they don't.
And then he says when for their own ambitious ends, they shun binding themselves.
It is a token that they are giving more thought to themselves than to you and a prince ought to guard against such and to fear them as if they were open enemies.
Because in adversity, they will always help to ruin you.
Someone that's not on board, someone that's looking out for themselves. Someone that's looking out for themselves and not looking out for you.
It's a problem, real problem. You treat them like an open enemy or view them, fear them as if they're an open enemy.
And then he continues, but one who in opposition to the people becomes a prince by the favor of nobles ought above everything seek to win the people over to himself.
And this he may easily do if he takes them under his protection.
Because men, when they receive good from him, of whom they were expecting evil, are more bound or bound more closely than to their benefactor.
And then he goes, they'll do this.
And if they think they are going to treat them like crap and then you treat them well, they're like doubly devoted to you.
And then you can explain that to you with comfort. Like you know, if you're in bed and then you hear, I don't know, chicken outside or something or like a black hole air or something.
And then you can't relax with that noise or whatever, because you expect to be real comfortable in your bed, kind of think, but you go land some chair or sit on a chair and it's surprisingly comfortable.
You fall asleep real quick.
So it's got the same deal with the people though, you may be really in Napstone.
And then you can even just on a normal social level, you know, when you're all he's going to be doing, you meet them up like a movie stars right?
Let's say they always play a bad guy or something like that. And this goes both ways too.
And you meet the movie star in person and they're all nice.
But you're using them playing the bad guy. So you have this weird subconscious expectation that you just love that guy.
Whatever they play there, that's how they are. Yeah, it's like subconscious what.
Do you think that those people that play a bad guy all the time when in real life they feel like everyone views me like I'm a jerk. So I'm going to be super nice.
Maybe.
But actually, you know what, I actually hear more about the opposite where it's like, it's the good guy. You know, he's all he's playing the good guy or maybe on some show or something like that.
Guys, you know, you meet him in real life. He's not like that. Anyway, same deal. Yeah, expectations mean a lot is what you're getting at.
You know, including leadership perspective and napping perspective.
Yes.
And meeting stars or whatever. Yes.
There we go.
A prince who can command and is a man of courage undismayed an advert in adversity who does not fail in other qualifications and who by his resolution and energy.
Keeps the whole people encouraged such a one will never find himself deceived in them and it will be shown that he has laid his foundations well.
Again, this is not what people think.
Mackey, Mackey, Veli, what's talking about?
No, they think he's saying build relationship be strong.
Give to your people.
Continuing a wise prince ought to adopt such a course that his citizens will always in every sort and kind of circumstance have need of the state and of him and then he will always find them faithful.
Well, that one's a little bit. That one's a little bit. Hey, you know, you need me here.
Yeah.
That one's a little bit mackey velentradish.
Yeah. Continuing, whoever shall fortify his town and shall have managed the other concerns of his subjects well and to be often repeated will never be attacked without great caution.
For men are always adverse to enterprises where difficulties can be seen and it will be seen not to be an easy thing to attack one who has his town well fortified and is not hated by his people.
Again, try and build relationship with your people.
That's what he's saying.
A prince who has a strong city and has not made himself odious will not be attacked or if anyone sure to attack you will only be driven off with disgrace.
Same thing.
Like if you've got a good if your people support you, you can get attacked and you're going to drive that person off that attack you drive them off into disgrace.
Quick one here that the arms with which a prince defends his state are either his own or there are mercenaries,
or mixed and we says our exilaries, he's talking about how if you have an ally you can use their troops right so if you and I are allies and I'm like, hey, I'm going to be an attacker here, you can send me some troops. Those are my exilary troops.
mercenaries and exilaries are useless and dangerous and if one holds his state based on these arms, he will stand neither firm nor safe for they are disunited ambushes and vicious and without discipline unfaithful,
walking it before friends cowardly before enemies. They have neither the fear of God nor fidelity to men and destruction is deferred only so long as the attack is. For him peace, one is robbed by them and in war by the enemy.
the field, then a trifle of a stipend which is not sufficient to make them willing to die
for you. They are already enough to be your soldiers whilst you do not make war, but if war
comes, they take themselves off or run from the foe. I've got a friend that does high level
security and they were going through like a high level briefing plan if in like a serious
disaster scenario with a high paying client and he was basically had incorporated into the
plan his own family. So okay, echo the high playing client, you come to me and say hey I want if there's a
if there's a complete catastrophe. We're talking campio break out zombie apocalypse. What's the plan?
And he goes, okay, here's the plan. He came up with a plan and he put, I said okay echo, here's the plan,
here's what's going to happen. Here's where my family is going to be. And the guy's like what do you
mean? You're like, well, you're family. I'm not worried about your family. The security guy's
is the security guy's like, hey, I'm not, you guys, you guys, you guys, I will be bringing my family.
And the guy's like, wait, why are you bringing your family? He says, because if I'm not bringing my
family, I'm not going to be there to help you survive. And the guy says, okay, fair enough. Right?
Yes. Hey, we've got a bunker to go to. I'll get you to the bunker, but I'm not going to get,
I'm not going to leave my family. And then you think I'm going to defend your bunker when my
family is out with the zombies? No. The best thing you could possibly do is let me bring my family
in the bunker, because then I will die before I give up the bunker. If it's just you, I love you.
I appreciate you're giving me money, but I'm going to take care of my family first. Yeah.
So think about that. It's a square-to-way plan, right? Yeah. You actually embed yourself inside
my family and you're going to be safe. Yeah. I'll use some of your money to prepare for the situation,
but then we'll be ready. Yeah. We're all one team now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that turned someone
from a mercenary into, you know, part of the team. Yeah. Yeah. Continuing on, the mercenary
captains are either capable men or they are not. If they are, you cannot trust them because they
always aspire to their own greatness, either by oppressing you, who are their master or others
contrary to your intentions. But if the captain is not skillful, you are ruined the usual way.
Yeah. Yeah. Just the usual way of being ruined. You know what that is? That means you just
get hacked to death on the battlefield. That's what it means. Luz Luz with the mercenary. Yeah.
The mercenary is a Luz Luz scenario. Yeah. Continuing. A Prince ought to have no, uh,
it's getting his own for this one. A Prince ought to have no other aim or thought,
nor select anything else for his study, then war and its rules and discipline.
For this is the soul art that belongs to him who rules and it is of such force that it not only
upholds those who are born princes, but it often enables men to rise from a private station to that
rank. And on the contrary, it is seen that when princes have thought more of ease, then of arms,
they have lost their states. And the first cause of your Luzing it is to neglect this art.
And what enables you to acquire a state is to be the master of the art.
So there you go. That's general rules for everyone. Study nothing but war.
And yes. Cool. Yeah. Yes. It is interesting, isn't it?
I mean, you don't have to go back that far to where the way things are going to be is settled by
war. 100% and you can still say that's true today. I mean, we're in a poem of sea fails. We've got a war.
Yeah. That's the way it works. You and I can't have a conversation. If that conversation fails,
what's going to happen? Agreed, it is a degree. From not agreeing to that, turns into a scrap.
So I better study. Yeah. Now, if one of us knows that the other one is going to win on the field of
battle, that's going to make that person a little bit more apt to agree, right? Yes. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Or agreed to disagree whichever. No, well, the one person might have to agree. All the
ways they're getting choked. All right. So now he talks about how you continue on.
A Prince who does not understand the art of war over and above the other misfortunes already mentioned
cannot be respected by his soldiers. Nor can he rely on them. He ought never, therefore, to have his
thoughts, this to have out of his thoughts, this subject of war. And in peace, he should
adict himself more to its exercise than in war. This he can do in two ways, the one by actually
you know, by study. So he's saying that in peace time, you can actually adict yourself more to exercising
war than you can and war itself. So when it's time to prepare, you prepare. Even when it's
well, not war going on, that's when you get ready. You don't wait until you're getting attacked
to start training jiu-jitsu. You start now. Yeah. I've had that argument with people. I said,
well, the thing is, takes really long time to get good at jiu-jitsu. Why are you going to be attacked?
Well, I don't know. If you get attacked tomorrow, that's a bummer. But you're probably not going
to get attacked tomorrow. You're going to attack in six months. You might get attacked in a year.
You might get attacked in four years. You can be really good by that time.
Yeah. Yeah, there was an article. I think you even came across it. You might even comment it
on it online. And in the article, it was like some things that you shouldn't focus on or whatever
is a man or something like this. And I thought it was a fake article and so I still think,
I mean, I don't know if it was really or not. But whatever. Let's just say it was real.
And it was like fighting. It's at fighting. That's the most wrong thing ever. Yeah. And I actually
agree that I actually think that this is so high up. I kind of agree that this with this statement,
like you should focus on this. This is being really high in your focus in life. Yeah. And it
really comes down to a safety thing. Really. And look, yeah, definitely comes down to a safety thing.
I'm not I'm not saying like, hey, just study jiu-jitsu, just study MMA. I'm not saying that, right?
Because those shouldn't be your primary interest unless you're a fighter, right? And there's
some people that are so into whatever. They get so into jiu-jitsu that the rest of their life
falls apart. Not recommending that, right? You want you to have a good well balanced life. But if you
make jiu-jitsu, a part of it, it's going to be better. It's going to be better. It's going to adapt
to everything else. It's going to teach you about other things. Yeah. And that's not to mention you
can fight if you are. And not to mention Peter or Tia. He's like, he mentioned something about
what was it? It was something to do with golf. Like basically he was saying,
you have to put all this effort in and it's too frustrating. And I said, wait,
he tried jiu-jitsu. Yeah. And then someone else said, and he said, that's why I'm not doing it.
Or something like that. Or he said something when it was on it. And then I said something like,
oh, no, someone else chimed in, hey, golf doesn't teach you anything. Like golf has what
transferable skills to life does golf have. Yeah. Hey, I'm not hating on golf. If you let golf
cool, more power to you as far as I'm concerned. But you're not going to be able to take the skills
of a pot and bring them to. Now, okay, well, let's, let's reach here. I guess you will,
because you know, you're going to be able to relax, you're going to learn how to get mental
focus. So that's good. Good in that perspective. We'll give credit. But direct transferable,
physical techniques, very limited. Limited, especially when you start comparing them to jiu-jitsu.
Yeah. Because golf can give you some of the same things that that like when I talk about
shooting, like when you get good at shooting, it gives golf can give you some of those same things
because you're under pressure. You got to focus. You got to put the last shot out of your mind.
You got to focus on what you're actually doing. You can't worry about the next shock. There's
a lot of things that it can help there. Yeah. There's some motor skills stuff in there. There's
a lot of stuff in there. Yeah. But I cut you off for a reason. What was I saying?
But I don't know if I was super hyped on whatever I was about to say. Oh, they article the
way. Oh, yeah. So it was like fighting. You shouldn't, you know, fight or whatever. And what
made it even worse, like a lot worse, is the explanation as to why? What was the reason why? So
if I remember correctly, it was because you shouldn't be fighting. That's why. It's like,
yeah, you only fight if you lose your temper. You know, like you know, you shouldn't. It's
been in a nutshell. You say, because you shouldn't be fighting. So you shouldn't focus on learning
how to fight or whatever. Here's the ultimate dichotomy in this situation. The more the
better you can fight, the less you're going to have to fight exactly right. And most of us,
in fact, out, I would, I'm almost tempted to say it. All of us, everybody who is a train fighter
unless you're talking about competition, you don't train to fight so you can go get into fights
with me. No. That's not the reason. Not even like a little bit of the reason. Okay. I can't think
of anyone that I've known in training, Gigiitsu that their goal is like, hey, I'm doing this. So I can
go antagonize people and actually get into, get myself into fights. There's no one that you're right.
There's no one that's you. I mean, I'm sure there's a couple complete jerks somewhere out there
that have done that, but like I haven't known any. Yeah. And even thinking about that, it'd be like
it's that that would be weird. Yeah. You'd see like a like a different one someone's like a bouncer, right? Oh,
you were a bouncer, right? And it's like, oh, I want to know how to handle myself if I get into a fight,
but you'd rather just be polite to people until it was, be polite, right? Until it's being nice until
it's time to not be nice. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. That's the way we used to do it, right?
There. Exactly. Right. But even then, even then, by no means, it's literally the opposite direction.
It's not so I know how to go fight guys. You know, it's more so you know what to do in the event
of a fight. Now I will say this. I have to look at this from perspective when I was younger,
like before I joined the military, there's times where we were getting in fights just to get into fights.
Yeah. And if Jitu would have been a thing, I probably would have been doing it.
I was just young and stupid, so all my friends. All right. So here's kind of the,
what I call it a dichotomy, but I think it's more like a sure I'll call it a dichot. It's like a
catch 22. So like when you don't know how to fight, like before you take Jitu, oh yeah, I'm
the same boat, where it's like getting in a fight seems more appealing. When you learn Jitu and
here's the proof by the way, when you learn Jitu, you don't really want to do it. Maybe at first,
maybe at first your white belt or whatever, sure. But think about this blue belt, purple belt,
brown belt, and this goes up and up the the more you advanced. Okay, your black belt. You've been
a black belt for like what 13, 14 years or something like this. One, a brand new white belt comes in.
Do you want to roll with him or you want to roll with Andy? Andy. Why? Andy's good. Exactly right.
So you want, you don't want to go test your skills again. Some weirdo on the street, you know,
you want to go practice and learn and improve that you're like good with other good people,
you know, other people who are trained. So it's like it makes no sense. Well, then I thought what
we were going like that is when you're good or no, like let's say you're an almond gold or
not a fight. The your first Jitu class, you're like, okay, I'm not going to get any fights. You
know what I'm saying? Like that's where I thought you're going, which is I think a very realistic
thing. And I think if I was 15 years old again and Jitu exists, and I was like, oh, I'm going to
go learn not a fight. I would have gone in there one class, and I'd be like, I'm not getting any fights.
Oh, I've heard of this stuff because you never know who knows this stuff. Because you go in a
Jitu class and you get choked out by someone that is half years or maybe three quarters your size.
Yeah. That's a scary thing. Very scary. You saw some sort of looking around going away. Who knows
that? Yeah. I'm not your confidence goes way down when you, well, I'm not your career.
Yeah, that's your thing that you're talking about. It's yeah, it's absolutely true. And I was in the
oh man, I felt that it was overwhelmed because I was in the like, like you said, I was a bouncer.
So even when you get your blue belt, it's like that's when you're kind of the most fiery, I think,
in certain ways. Um, yeah. And so I'm looking around and I'm like, yeah, you know, I could do this.
But you know, I could take that guy. He's bigger, but I could take him like, I know I can, but then you're
like, wait, no, I don't know who that guy is. You know, you can see one wrestler.
But what if you caught yourself in a real fight? You're, you're kind of done, man.
You've been big. You've been big. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of. Yeah. So when you think about that,
you're like, man, yeah, just like what you said, but I'm not getting into any fights. There is that.
So this goes even further. So this article that you're talking about that said, you shouldn't
learn how to fight because you shouldn't be fighting. Yeah. I shouldn't get into fight. The actual,
if you feel the urge to fight the best thing you can do to quail that urge to go learn how to fight.
Yeah. I think he said the best thing is to go learn meditation. No. Yeah. Sam Harris, where you at?
We're not as not going to help us. I'm not against meditation. But as a as a replacement for
laying out a fight. No. Sorry, man. And you know what? I've had Tim Ferris and Peter and I don't know
if we talk about this with Sam yet that they think they, they, they impose meditation on
to my duty to form it. Right? They're like, that is, they're like, hey, Joc, the things that people
are trying to get from meditation is what you get when you go and you do duty to. Like your
mind gets emptied your focused, but not focused. There's all these things. And I'm sure I'm, you know,
people that are in the meditation will say, no, you're missing it. I'm fine. That's fine. I know I am.
Whatever. But what I'm saying is there are some similarities between their hashtory because
Tim and Sam, you know, they both duty to do duty to and do meditation. And there's cross over there.
Somewhere. Tim for sure has told me that. Tim for sure has told me that he's even like weight
lifting. You know, even when you're trying to do a movement, right? You're trying to do a snatch.
You're trying to do some movement that you have to focus on. That puts you, I mean, you know,
it's like when you go to duty to you come home, you feel so good. But you don't feel good because of
the physical work out. You feel good because your brain got emptied. Yeah. You know, and I think that's
part of what meditation is. I don't know. But yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I would think so too. Yeah. It's like an
overlap. Yeah. It's a bunch of overlap there. Because yes. And so to sum this up, learn how to fight.
Right. Learn not about it. My 100%. Brad, don't listen to that weirdo article man. The thing is
there's a good chance that it was like a one of those parody whatever. Yeah. I forget what even it was
on like website. Yeah. But it wasn't on like a parody website. I don't I didn't recognize it
as a parody website. But I don't remember the website to be honest with you. I just saw these weird
things to me. It was it was the kind of all of the items on his little list were like were wrong.
Fighting was just the one that I felt. It's not as about the whole thing was just wrong. Yeah.
This is joke. Big joke. Tell me what's up. He used everything's big joke. Okay. So as I was
wrapping up that last one, he says that you can study war. You can exercise yourself in a war.
Two different ways. He says one by action, the other by study. Here we go. Here's the action part.
As regards action, he ought above all things to keep his men well organized and drilled to follow
incessantly the chase, which is like hunting and patrolling by which he accustomeds his body to
hardships and learns something of the nature of the localities and gets to find out how the mountains
rise, how the valleys open out, how the planes lie and to understand the nature of rivers and
marshes and in all this to take the greatest care. Which knowledge is useful in two ways. Firstly,
he learns to know his country and is better able to undertake its defense afterwards by means of
knowledge and observation of that locality. He understands that he's,
any, he understands with ease, any other, which it may be necessary for him to study here after.
Because the hills, valleys and planes and rivers and marshes that are, for instance, in
Tuscany have a certain resemblance to those of other countries. So that with a knowledge of the
aspect of one country, one can easily arrive at a knowledge of others. And the prince that
lacks this skill, the essential which is desirable that a captain should possess for it teaches him
to surprise his enemy to select quarters to lead armies to array the battle to besiege towns
to his advantage. So boom, go out, train, train incessantly, train incessantly, get out there.
That's what you have to do. And now, so that's the action part and the other part now here.
Now we get to the study part. To exercise the intellect, the prince should read histories and study
the actions of illustrious men to see how they have borne themselves in war to examine the cause
of their victories and defeat. So as to avoid the latter and imitate the former.
Listen to this podcast. This is what we're saying. Read.
If you don't got time to read, press play. Boom. Get some.
I wish I had this podcast. I wish I had this podcast to listen to when I was 17 years
old when I was 19 years old when I was 23 years old when I was 33 years old when I was 37 years old.
Are you kidding me?
Yeah, that practice part is it seems like, oh yeah, that makes sense, you know, but I think that
I'm not sure if you read the whole thing, but it seems kind of even understated because like even
when you study something, you're like, okay, I know what to do. You do part seems understated.
The study part, more than action. The action part. Yeah. He says,
Incessantly, he says, I dicked yourself to exercise of war. I don't know if that's understated.
You're not. You're probably been read it well. No, no, no, yeah, maybe, you know, maybe it was just me.
Maybe I think it's just so important that that should be the whole book. I don't know.
Okay. Whatever, but either way, either way, then regardless of how
but trading is so important to you as what you're saying. I think that actually doing it is because
without it, you just lose, I think you lose more than half. If you consider study action.
Right. And you don't do the action part. I think action is more than half. Or it feels like
you didn't even wait because like if you, um, let's say you haven't done the digital in a long time
or anything, you are correct when it comes to sports, but he's talking about actual going to war.
And you can't take a nation to war. You can't even take a platoon to war. You can't take a
company to war without going to war. So yes, you can do the training exercises in the field.
But there is absolutely a massive benefit to studying what has happened in the past.
And I'll tell you, from a leadership perspective, like if I was a business person, I'd be reading
about business business. Not so much business leadership books that this is how to lead,
but this is what happened in this situation. And the perfect example for me of that,
from the war perspective is about face by hack worth. That book is not a leadership book.
But when you read it from a leadership through a leadership lens, it's all about leadership.
It's all about leadership. And so you can take books that are about business. Not about like,
hey, this is a leadership instructional manual. But hey, this is what happened in this,
as this company fell apart or this, like you study those books read those books, then it gives you a
little bit more of an advantage. But in both these, what you really should be looking for is the dynamics
of human nature. And you can figure out, like, okay, when people in this happen inside this company,
or this happen in this battle, people act this way, people act that way. And I understand them better.
If you're seeing it for the first time, just like we talked earlier about, if you see,
if you know an arm lock is coming, if you know how to defend an arm lock,
or you know what's coming, you at least know to pull your elbow in, right? If you read a book that
explains what happened in a battle or in a business scenario, and you go, okay, here's what happened
right here. I recognize it, maybe not exactly, but it's close enough, and I can expect this
response from the enemy or from the competitor or from my people. I can make an adjustment.
I'm at least not blind. Yeah, and that's kind of the part I was talking about where we're,
yeah, that's right. And I think that's right, even the inverse where it's like, okay, you can
let's say you study this. I know this, you know, I know that this is how it works, but you've never been
in the situation to recognize how it feels, you know, you know, so like training for war or whatever,
like let's say in your case, where you would always, you say you try your best to make the training
is realistic as possible. So that's the actual action kind of stuff, even just something that's
as simple as role, role playing, you know, where it's like you're trying to simulate, you're trying
to introduce the action part of it more so than it's study. Sure. I see what you're saying. You know,
so yeah, so when you find yourself in the real situation, yes, I'll give you a case in point.
You can read extreme ownership. You can read the academy of leadership. I'll have someone that's
read and read and studied both those books, listen to every podcast and roll in and be like,
hey, let's roll play this right here and be like, you know, put them in a scenario where
where the right answer would be to say, hey, like, that's my fault. Here's what I'm going to do. And they'll
they'll say, well, the team needs to do this and you just think yourself. So you, you are correct.
You have to put people in the action as much as you can because the observation of a situation
is not as effective a learning tool as the being involved in the situation. Yeah. I do actually
agree with you. Yeah, because just like in your in that scenario, you just kind of painted it. It's
usually, well, I would imagine you could tell me, is it because their feelings almost kind of blocked
their knowledge at that point in a way? Yes, you know, yes. Yes. So if you're in the situation,
you are now kind of familiar with the feelings that come along with. And for instance, you have to
learn how to detach. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if you don't know how to detach and I throw
something actually, you know how you detach because you know what the right answer is, but you don't do it.
You can't do it. You don't do it. So that's, that's a problem. So yes, put yourself, put people,
put your team, put yourself, not just study it. Okay. Here's the, here's what you do. You study it.
And then from the study, you try and formulate a simulation that you can put yourself into.
There you go. There's the answer. There's the answer. Last little section about this,
a wise prince, not never in peaceful times, stand idle. But increases resources with industry in
such a way that they may be available to him in adversity. So that if fortune chances, it may
find him prepared to resist her blows. He's really into, in the peacetime, you are harder.
Yeah. And know what? I'm going to agree with him. Next, every prince ought to desire to be
considered, clement and not cruel. That's, again, this is not tradition. Mac you've elli.
But then he says, nevertheless, he ought to take care not to misuse this clement. So show mercy, but don't
get crazy. Beep. There's a dichotomy. Don't get crazy with the mercy. This dichotomy. Like be very
merciful, but don't get be overly merciful. You gotta be balanced. Can't be a softy. Get me a softy.
A prince so long as he keeps his subjects united in loyal, ought not to mind the reproach of cruelty
because with a few examples. So he's, hey, if you're considered cruel, sometimes, that's okay.
This is tradition. This. Because with a few examples, he will be more merciful than those who
through too much mercy allow disorders to arise from which follow mergers or robberies.
For these are want to injure the whole people, whilst those executions, which originate with the
prince offend the individual of the. So every once in a while, if somebody gets out of line,
you gotta, you gotta kill him. You gotta execute him. Okay. And that is actually going to keep the
people more under control. More so the little discipline, gauge you can more freedom. Right. The little
discipline is freedom. No, not one. I think that's the old making eggs in example. For a
little make an example. But what he said is, hey, the example of the hurts one person. Yeah.
So that's cool. Yeah. Here's the famous section when I'll read a pretty big chunk of it.
Upon this, a question arises whether it be better to be loved than feared or feared than loved.
It may be answered that one should wish to be both. But because it is difficult to unite them in one
person, it is much safer to be feared than loved when of the two either must be dispatched with.
So he's saying the best thing you could do is balance your dichotomy. That's the best thing to do.
Because this is to be asserted in general of men that they are ungrateful.
Fickle, false, cowardly, covetous, and as long as you succeed, they are yours entirely. So he's
saying, look, people are kind of dastardly. But as long as you're doing good, as long as you're
successful, you'll be fine. But when you're being successfully, he says they will offer you
their blood, property, life, and children, as is said above, when the need is far distant.
So as long as I'm doing good, Echos, I'll be there for you. But when it approaches,
they turn against you. And that prints who relying entirely on their promises
has neglected other precautions is ruined. Because friendship, this is a big critical
differentiation. Because friendships that are obtained by payments and not by greatness or no
ability of mind may indeed be earned, but they are not secured. And in time of need, they cannot
be relied upon. And men have less scrupal and offending one who is beloved than one who is feared
for love is preserved by the link of obligation, which owing to the baseless of men is broken at
every opportunity for their advantage. But fear preserves you by a dread of punishment which never
fails. So I think one of the differences he's talking about, when I give you money, when I treat you
well, when I am generous to you, you love me. But that's different, you know, that's different.
That's not like a respectful love. Yeah. But then, and then he says this as well, nevertheless
a prints ought to inspire fear in such a way if he does not win love, he avoids hatred.
Because he can endure very well being feared, whilst he is not hated, which will always be as
long as he abstains from the property of his citizens and subjects from their women.
So he said, look, you can't just run rough shot over people and take the women and take their property.
Hmm. But when it is necessary for him to proceed against the life of someone, he must do it
on proper justification and for manifest cause. But above all things, he must keep his hands off
the property of others because men more quickly forget the death of their father than loss of their
patrimony. So yeah, firm but fair than he's saying. Yeah, yeah, overly firm. He's saying firm when you
have to be. Yeah. But fair is just as important. It's a dichotomy that you have to balance.
That's what he's saying. He just didn't write it as cleverly.
When a prince with his army and under and has under his control, a multitude of soldiers,
then it is quite necessary for him to disregard the reputation of cruelty. Again, so he again,
he's saying, when you got to be cool, you got to be cool. For without it, he would never hold
his army united or dispose to its duties. Among the wonderful deeds Hannibal of Hannibal,
this one is enumerated that having led an enormous army composed of various races of men
to fight in foreign lands, no dissensions arose either among them or against the prince, whether
in his bad or in his good fortune. This arose from nothing else than his inhuman cruelty,
which with downless, which with his boundless valor made him very revered and terrible
in the sight of his soldiers revered and terrible. There's a dichotomy. He was revered and terrible.
But without that cruelty, his virtues were not sufficient to produce this effect.
Returning to the question of being feared or loved, I've come to the conclusion that men
loving according to their own will and fearing according to that of a prince, a wise prince,
to establish himself on that which is in his own control and not in that of others, he must
endeavor only to avoid hatred as is noted. So be balanced. And he said over and over again before
this that you know having the connection with the people and if the people are loyal like that's
the most important thing. If they hate you or if they don't like you, or if they're just afraid
you, they don't have that. Anything about it. When you're afraid of somebody and you have the chance
to to rise up and smash them down, you don't want to live in fear. So.
Next section, everyone admits how praise worthy it is in a prince to keep faith and to live with
integrity and not with craft and he used that word craft meaning like, guy-o and sort of, yeah.
Yeah. Nevertheless, our experiences have been that those princes who have done great things
have had good faith of little account and have known how to circumvent the intellect of men
by craft. And if in the end overcome those who relied on their work, you must know there are
two ways of contesting. One by law, the other by force, the first method is proper to men,
the second to beasts. But because the first is frequently not sufficient, it is necessary to
have recourse to the second. So look, we want to do things that run nice way. But if we have to,
got to get a little savage. There is, therefore, it is necessary for a prince to understand how to
avail himself of the beast and the man. Again, this is an dichotomy. You've got to know that
sometimes you've got to get, get nuts and sometimes you've got to not. It is necessary for a prince
know how to make use of both natures. And that one without the other is not as durable. A prince,
therefore, being compelled knowingly to adopt the beast, ought to choose the fox and the lion,
because the lion cannot defend himself against snares and the fox cannot defend himself against
wolves. Therefore, it is necessary to be a fox to discover the snares and a lion to terrify the wolves.
Those who rely simply on the lion do not understand what they are about.
So he, who has known best how to employ the fox, has succeeded the best. There you go.
You know, can't just be the Brick Brute. You got to have a little bit of that.
But it is necessary to know of, this is where you get, this is going traditional
Machiavellian attitude. It is necessary to know how well, well, to know well how to disguise
this characteristic and to be a great pretender and dissembler. And men are so simple and so
subject to present necessities that he who seeks to deceive will always find someone who will
allow himself to be deceived. There is a soccer born every minute. So he's saying, you got to
act these ways, but you got to cover it up. Which is going back to Richard III. Hey, I'm going to cover
this stuff and make it up. Make it look like I'm the saint. Really, I'm the devil.
Uh, a Prince, especially a new one, cannot observe all those things for which men are esteemed,
being often forced in order to maintain the state to act contrary to fidelity,
friendship, humanity and religion. So he's saying, look, those are those the the nice ways to act,
but sometimes you can't you can't keep it. Therefore, it's necessary for him to have a mind
ready to turn itself accordingly as the winds and variations of fortunes force it yet,
as I have said above, do not deserve diverge from the good. If you can avoid doing so,
but if compelled, then to know how to set it about. So hey, if you can, you got to be
you maintain your fidelity and friendship and humanity in religion. If you can,
if you can't, you got not to get after it the other way. That's what he's saying. And again, my
personal belief is if you do that, it's going to come back. It's going to come back and I'm not
again, like I'm not talking about a spiritual karma that's going to come back. I'm talking about
real life will come back. You screw someone over their time will come. You screw enough people over,
everyone's time is going to come. Yeah. And then it doesn't maybe I got it wrong, but so Jordan
Peter Sin for example, he'll talk about this too, right? Like where you have to be a good person
with the capability of being a bad person. That's optimum. The optimum thing is, hey, you can get,
you can, you can bring the thunder if you have to, but you shouldn't, you shouldn't have to. Yeah.
This is not quite that. This is saying sometimes, you get to do some underhand stuff. That's what he's saying.
He's saying, sometimes you got to do some underhand and stuff. Yeah. And I'll tell you back in these days,
I mean, think about how much more communication there is today. Yeah. You do something that's
out of line. Everyone's going to know it. Yeah. There's not going to take him very long to know it. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Weird man. When you see, you know, some people, they're just sort of like that,
you know, and they're, you know, it's almost like they can't see very far ahead of themselves or
something like that. Like they'll, like, oh, yeah. Yeah. They're just shortsighted and they just screw
this guy over and screw that person over and next, you know, they look up and they wonder why they
didn't get hired or they wonder why they didn't get the contractor. They wonder why they didn't get
promoted. It's like, oh, guess what you did? Yeah. And it's almost like I thought like,
well, shoot, I didn't like, I didn't screw you over. Like, why are you acting like this kind of thing?
Or why are you treating me like this? Like, I'm some, you know, Fox or Clever, what a craft person,
or whatever. But meanwhile, everyone's seeing what you're doing. No, it's just because you didn't do
to me. No, bro. We know all kinds of people. One of the one of the hardest things for some people
is they think that they're a Fox. They think that they can get one over on you. And, and they just,
they just, it's so obvious. Like you said, it's so obvious. You're looking at them going, hey, man,
everyone, not just me. Everyone can see you. And you know what? Sometimes people,
sometimes not everyone can see what they're doing. And if you're, and they think they're getting
away with something and you're looking at them going, man, I can see right through what you're doing.
Yeah. Why are you doing this? Yeah. Because I can see exactly what you're doing. Yeah.
You, and the fact that you're doing it, and I, you don't think I can see that you're doing it,
it proves two things. Number one, you don't think I'm very smart. And number two, you're
underhanded. Yeah. Neither one of those is going to work out for you. Because this is not my
first rodeo. And I'm watching what you're doing. And this is going to come back in a very hard way
on you. Yeah. Don't do that. Yeah. And there's that. There's varying levels of that too. Like,
you can be like real devious stuff. You know, it can be that. But it can be like a little harmful
things too. And then, and the point there is semi-harm, you meant to say, hard lesson.
semi-harmless things. Yeah. semi-harmless things. But there's, but also sometimes,
and I always try and get people to pay attention to this. If you're underhanded with me,
if you try to sneak one by me, it's a trust violation. Yeah. That's a problem. Yeah.
That's a problem. And you know what? I'm not going to confront you. But I know you. Yeah.
And it's even worse. It would be better off for you if I just came and said, hey, echo.
Yeah. You know, you tried to slide this one under on the expense account.
And you bought, you know, whatever. You took your family out for dinner on the company credit card.
Mm-hmm. And I saw that. And you shouldn't do that. That would be better.
Then you mean you'd be better for you. Yeah. For little money. Yeah. For little plans.
Then me not saying anything. Yeah. Just noting it. And now I'm cracking you. Yeah. Because it's like
my knowledge of that kind of gives me a foot to stand on so I can kind of maneuver. So I can continue
to maneuver and I didn't say anything. Yeah. And I won't say anything. I'll let you, I'll let you
continue to reveal your dark arts, my cards. Yes. Reveal your, reveal your nature.
Yeah. Your nature is cheating. Your nature is stealing from me. You're looking at me like
like I actually did. I'm trying to think, shoot. Did I do that right now? Thanks a lot.
But I'm just saying think about it. But the point of what you're saying like whenever
you're all this year, I'll just run this. This is combining it right now.
You know, through that expense report, your head boy would, when people can see you, but they
can't see themselves. You know, you know, even with like small stuff, big stuff small stuff,
whatever one, everyone can see what you're doing, everyone. And my point is not every, not,
it's not always that everyone can see. Sometimes not everyone can see. And that actually encourages
a person to continue their little crafty ways that they think they're so good at. And it's so,
when when I see that happening, it's just so disappointing. It's so disappointing because you're not
even in a situation where you're with me because like, oh, you know, I brought you to my house.
Basically if someone's going to be able to do that to me, they're in my house. If you're in my house
and you're trying to, you know, steal some milk from the drawer when I'm not looking,
sure, without permission. Yeah. Like you're trying to, that thing in your bag,
you could, if you would ask me, you'd have, you'd have had a case of milk, but you didn't ask
what you thought as I'm going to try and get this. That's a whole different way thing, shake out.
And I'm not even going to say anything to you. It's going to be like, oh, that's not
saying anything to you. You can have that milk. That milk, it was worth it because now I know your nature.
So the torment is kind of the punishments. No, but okay, so back to it. There won't be any punishment.
Right. But, but, but in a year, you're going to look up and be like, hey, I know that we got this
opportunity. I'm saying, oh, yeah, yeah, I took the opportunity on foot. The amount of room for you,
and the opportunity. There's exactly it. There you go. That's what happens. But when I
say people can do, you can say, you don't want to say harmless ways or semi-harmless ways.
Yes, whatever. Of course. Even like the teeny teeny tiny things in the
we said this before like name dropping. Right. And that goes beer. That's not, it doesn't go into
DBS. That's not necessarily a DBS crafty thing or nothing like that. But I'm just saying the
concept of someone doing something where we all see what you're doing kind of thing.
You know, so you name drop someone is like, oh, it's just part of the story. But it's like,
probably, I'll see what you're doing right there. You know, but it's, I think it's hard for us.
Sometimes like I just named dropped Sam Harrison Timfers. No, I didn't feel like you did.
You know, then again, you did say their first and last name. So that's a symptom. No, because
I think the opposite, if I would have said, oh, well, you know, I was talking to Tim. I was like,
me and Sam were having a quick conversation. That's true. I think you told me that before
to end you're right. Yeah, it seems more, I guess it depends. But yes, yes, you're, Tim.
And then you're hoping in the back of mind that asked him who so you get to say, oh, just too
fair. No, you do. Yeah. Yeah. So maybe, but the point is people see what you're doing. But sometimes
it's hard for us to see that they can see that, you know? Yes, they're on the way. You got to stop
it. It's a sad thing. Assume that people can see what you're doing. There's a good lesson for the
day. Assume that the little maneuvers that you think are all clandestine, assume that people can
actually see assume that people are a little bit smarter than you think. Assume that you're maybe
not as smart as you think you are. Yeah. Because there's little crafty moves that you think are
fooling people. They don't. And they reveal you your nature as being underhanded. People don't
like underhanded people, especially me. Yeah. Check. All right, moving on. For this reason, again, we're
talking about how sometimes you have to, you have to violate, you have to according to this,
sometimes people have to act a little underhanded. You have to act the EVs or whatever. And here's
what he says about that. For this reason, a prince ought to take care that he never let anything
slip from his lips that does not replete with the above-named five qualities that he may appear
to him who sees and hears him all together. Merciful, faithful, humane, upright, and religious.
So again, this is Richard III. And there's a whole backstory. I'll give one Richard III on
why Shakespeare wrote it that way. But he definitely wrote it that way. And clearly from that opening,
he's literally doing what it says in this book. Men judge generally more by the eye than by the
hand because it belongs to everybody to see you, to few, to come to touch with you. Everyone sees
what you appear to be, few really know what you are and those few do not dare oppose themselves
to the opinion of many. So how you look is how you're going to be judged. The prince must
consider how to avoid those things which will make him hated or contemptible. This is not traditional
McEvellian thought. It makes him contemptible to be considered fickle, frivolous, a feminine,
mean-spirited, irresolute from all of which a prince should guard himself as from a rock. And he should
endeavor to show his actions, greatness, or showing his actions, greatness, courage, gravity,
and fortitude, and in his private dealings with his subjects, let him show that his judgments
are irrevocable and maintain himself in such reputation that no one can hope either to deceive or get
around him. Good advice. And I guess one of my points is everything that's so check this out.
Everything that we're saying about how people can see what you're doing,
he's recommending that you act this way but no one will know and you just have to pretend like you're
actually a good person. And what we're both saying is that doesn't work and I agree that doesn't work.
So the idea that you're going to be all behind the scenes, you're going to be all crafty behind
the scenes and no one's going to catch you. And you're just going to act with greatness and courage
and act with gravity and fortitude and that's how you're going to act but you're not really
not that way. My point is that doesn't work because people can see through it and they will see through
it. They might not see through it today or tomorrow but they'll see it through it in a week or two
weeks or a month or a year and then you're going to be undone. That's a good word.
A prince ought to reckon conspiracies of little account when his people hold him in a steam
but when his hustle to him and bears hatred toward him, he ought to a fear,
he ought to fear everything and everybody. So if your people support you, don't worry about conspiracies.
If your people are hostile towards you, you better take note. And well ordered states and
wise princes have taken every care to drive the noble's desperation and keep the people satisfied
and contented for this is one of the most important objects a prince can have. Keep your troops
keep the people in the game. There was never a new prince who has disarmed his subjects rather
when he has found them disarmed, he's always armed them because by arming them, those arms become
yours. Those men who were distrusted become faithful and those who were faithful are kept so
and your subjects become adherence. Now I think where this really plays into from a leadership perspective
is when you get, when you are in a leadership position and you empower people, you give them power,
it builds faith, it builds trust, it builds and the power that they that you give to them
becomes yours. The more powerful you make your subordinates, the more powerful you become.
If you have the ego that you can put in checks so that you don't mind giving some of that power away
because it'll come back to you tenfold. And here's what happens on the other in the spectrum,
when you disarmed them, at once you offend them by showing that you distrust them either for
cowardice or for want of loyalty and either of these opinions breeds hatred against you.
And because you cannot remain unarmed, it follows that you turn to mercenaries which are a character
which are of a character already shown. So once again, if I take your power from you,
then that's offensive. So be careful. Give, try and give people power. Don't take it away from them.
It takes a high level of lead security and confidence with your own leadership that you can give it away.
The more you're, the more confident you are, the more you can give it away. The more paranoid you
think people are going to be better than you. The harder this give it away, the worse leader you are.
The worse leader you become. The worse situation, the less power you have. Do you try to hold it
all for yourself? Continuing, the best possible fortress is not to be hated by the people.
Not traditional Mackey Valley in thought. The best possible fortress is not to be hated by the people.
Yeah, it seems like it's dark. It's a great start. Because although you may hold the fortress,
yet they will not save you if the people hate you. The fortress isn't going to, if the people hate you,
the fortress isn't going to help. Don't even bother. Oh, you built up a great fortress cool.
We're going to see you. Yeah, because we hate no water, no food.
You hook and fire over the walls, continuing. Nothing makes a prince so much esteemed as great
enterprises and setting a fine example. Set a good example. Not traditional Mackey
Valley in thought. We're good one. The choice of services of no little importance to a prince
and they are good or not according to the discrimination of the prince. And the first opinion
which one forms of a prince and of his understanding is by observing the men he has around him.
And when they are capable and faithful, he may always be considered wise because he has known
how to recognize the capable and to keep them faithful. But when they are otherwise one cannot form
a good opinion of him for the prime error, which he made was not choosing them. So people, your team,
people look at you and they judge you by what your team is like. And if you surround yourself
with people that are incompetent and incapable, that's what people are going to think of. So use caution.
Next, when you see the servant, when you see the servant thinking more of his own interests,
then of yours and seeking inwardly his own profit and everything, such a man will never make a good
servant nor will you ever be able to trust him because he who has the state of another in his hands
ought never think of himself, but always of his prince and never pay any attention to matters in
which the prince is not concerned. So if you got someone that's thinking of himself, you cannot trust
them. Yeah. On the other hand, to keep his servant honest, the prince ought to study him,
honoring him, enriching him, doing him kindness, sharing with him the honors and cares,
and at the same time, let him see that he cannot stand alone. So that many honors may not make him
desire more, many riches make him wish for more, and that many cares may make him dread chances.
So what's the best way to have loyalty with someone? Get treat him really, really well, you
enrich him, you honor him, you share the honors that you get with that person, and then he
throw a hasty throw in a little dig, which is you got to make sure they understand that they're
not going to get that by themselves. He always throws a little dig in there, a little bit, he
distrusts people. He says it a bunch of times, people are, which boundaries, basically.
Oh, important section, how flatters should be avoided. I did not wish to leave out an important
branch of this subject for it is danger, for it is a danger from which princes are with difficulty
preserved, unless they are carefully, unless they are careful and discriminating. It is that of
flatterers of those of whom courts are full, because men are so self-complacin in their own affairs
and in a way so deceived in them that they are preserved with difficulty from the past,
and if they wish to defend themselves, they run the danger of falling into contempt. Because there
is no other way of guarding oneself from flatters except letting men understand that to tell you
the truth does not offend you. You've got to make sure people understand that if you tell
me the truth, I'm not going to be offended. But when everyone may tell you the truth, respect for
you abates. There he throws in the little slump, little counter, right? He doesn't want people talking
smack to him, but he wants him to tell the truth. Therefore, a wise prince ought to hold a third
course by choosing the wise men in the state and giving them only the liberty of speaking the truth
to him and then only of those things which he inquires and of none others. So you can talk to the
truth as long as I ask you. But he ought to question them upon everything, but even though I say,
hey, you only need to echo, you only tell me the truth when I ask you. But I'm going to ask you
everything and listen to their opinions and afterwards for form his own conclusions. With these
counselors separately and collectively he ought to carry himself in such a way that each of them should
know that the more freely he shall speak, the more he shall be preferred. The more you tell me the
truth, the more I'm going to like it, the more I'm going to like you, outside of the easy should
listen to no one. Presue the thing resolved on and be steadfast in his resolutions. He who does not
otherwise is either overthrown by flatters or is so often changed by varying his opinions that he
falls into contempt. He continues on with his thought. A prince therefore ought always to take counsel
but only when he wishes and not when others wish. He ought to rather discourage everyone from offering
advice unless he asks it. But however he ought to be a constant inquire afterwards, a patient listener
concerning the things which he is inquired. Also on learning that anyone or on any consideration
has not told him the truth he should let his anger his anger be felt.
And if there is someone who think that a prince who conveys an impression of his wisdom is not
through his own ability but through good advisors that he is around him beyond doubt they are deceived.
Because this is an axiom which never fails that a prince who is not wise himself will never take
good advice. So if you look at someone and say, oh, oh that that CEO is doing a good job but
that's because he's got these guys with him. That's actually wrong. The CEO's got that good person
with him. Those good people brought him in and then listen to him. They get credit. He gives him credit
for that. And you know what's funny? That's good salesmanship. Listen to this. Therefore,
it must be inferred that good councils went so every they come are born of the wisdom of the
prince and not the wisdom of the prince from good councils. So he's saying, if you're listening to
what I'm saying right now, that makes you good. If you listen to this book, right, listen to the
words I'm saying and you obey him, that makes you great. You're not giving credit to me. You're great
if you do. Yeah. What? Like you're smart because you're so smart to listen to your good stuff.
That you taking this advice proves that you're brilliant. Right. Yeah. You, it's like, hey, if you
read this book, it proves that you're smart. Just only a smart person would only just look
on your smart person would take the advice of someone else. That's how smart you are. That's
like good salesmanship of the book. Do not let, do not let our princes accuse fortune for the
loss of their principalities after so many years possession. Okay. So he's saying, don't let, don't
blame luck. Don't blame bad luck. When you lose your principality, don't blame bad luck. But rather
their own sloth because in quiet times, they never thought there could be a change. It is a common
defect and man not to make any provision in the calm against the tempest. So it's common that
people when things aren't going bad, they just kick back. They cruise. They cruise. They cruise.
Instead of working. And when afterwards, the bad times came, they thought of flight and not of
defending themselves and they hoped that the people disgusted with the insolence of the conquerors,
conquerors would recall them. That's a good plan. Hey, if I get overrun, I'll just hope that the
conquerors are so bad that the people rebel and bring me back. And here he talks about what
fortunate and again, he uses fortune like luck. What fortune can affect in human affairs and how to
withstand her. I will hold it to be true that fortune is the arbiter of about one half of our
actions. But that she still leaves us to direct the other half, perhaps a little less. So he's saying
luck. Luck has 50%. 50%. That's a big number. Yeah. And you might go, well, it's 50%. Man, why
even try? Well, that leaves you 50%. That's actually a lot. He goes on. I compare her and he's hers.
He's talking about his fortune. I compare her to one of those raging rivers, which when the
in flood overflows, the plains, sweeping away trees and buildings, bearing away the soil from
place to place, everything flies before it all yield to its violence without being able in any
way to withstand it. And yet, though it's nature be such, it does not follow therefore that man,
when the weather becomes fair shall not make provision, both with defenses and barriers in such a
manner that rising again, the waters may pass away by canal and their force be neither so unrestrained,
nor so dangerous. So floods are real bad and they'll wipe you out. But when there's no flood,
you can build walls, you can build barriers, you can build canals, and then you can control that
that danger, that flood. Continuing on, so it happens with fortune, who shows her power where
valor has not prepared to resist her. And Thither, she turns her forces where she knows that
barriers and defenses have not been raised to constrain her. So that bad luck, if you don't work,
that bad luck's common at you. It's common at you. Kind of like the weather,
remember how you were saying, like you kind of like extreme ownership, almost situation where
it's not kind of, it is straight up. Yeah, like, yeah, you know, let's say I put a TV outside,
TV outside would be cool. It doesn't really rain much here, so it's, I don't really need to put
on a cover every day, you know, kind of thing, and then sure enough. The one day out of the year it
rains on your TV, no more TV, seems to say. But if you would prepare properly, yeah, even though it's
sunny, you just keep the cover on anyway, you know, just in case it rains. Good one. Yeah,
that's, you know, to me, that was the perfect example. And I think there's a majority of people
will find that through the perfect example. One last, last little thing to close this out,
and he goes into some some more kind of historical documentation and examples, but this was a good one.
So I just wanted to close it out with this. A prince may be seen happy today and ruin tomorrow
without having shown any change of disposition or character. And what that saying is normal face.
You just need to keep, like, regardless, things are going great, things are going bad,
guess what we're sticking with normal. No, that's how we're sticking. And that wraps up the book.
Again, a ton to think about a ton that does, there's, there's definitely parts of it that match,
kind of the traditional Mackey Valley Mackey Valley and common perception. And there's
plenty of it that goes against it. And I believe the right answer is balance. And it's more
balanced than people think it is. But speaking of, you know, bolstering up our defenses against the
whims of fortune or misfortune, you know, do you have any, maybe suggestions on how we could
share bolster and prepare for that? Yeah, a few ways. Back to the book real quick. And so let's
say to sort of sum up what is a way to sum up Mackey Valley and ways? Well, like I said, the
the traditional understanding and meaning of the word Mackey Valley is a negative. It means
hey, this person's underhanded, they're going to deceive. They're not going to care what kind of
destruction they leave in their path. That's what people think of, like I said, if you say, hey,
this person's a Mackey Valley and leader, everyone thinks, okay, they're going to be merciless.
They're going to just run rough shot over everyone. They don't care who they step on to get to rise to
power. Yeah. That's the, that's the, that's what the word actually means. But, but we just gave
example after example, it's not that cut and dry. Yeah. And he definitely introduces many dichotomies
to to that idea that you're just going to do whatever it takes to get to the top. He talks a lot
about these other more moderate and important things that you need to do as a leader to get
not only to get in a position, but to stay in position. So being having good relationships with
your people, making sure they understand where you're coming from, like, these things are not
considered when you hear the word, but you don't know any better. You just take the word for
what the word has become to mean. What the word means now Mackey Valley and is like, hey,
I will stop it, nothing to rise to the top. Yeah. And that's one of the reasons why I wanted to
cover this because even with that, even though he definitely leans in that direction and he,
what he said is like, sometimes you got to, sometimes you got to stab your somebody in the back
occasionally and then you got to cover it up to the best of your ability. That's what he says.
Yeah. I don't believe that. I believe when you stab someone in the back,
that person they may die, but they got a friend, they got a brother, they got someone else,
they got someone else that you don't know, you don't recognize and at some point they're going to
come and get you. Yeah. So you have to, you know, you have to try and balance these dichotomies.
You have to try and, and that's not even balancing an dichotomy. That's just straight up like,
hey, you got to take, you got to treat people. You got to respect people. Yeah. And you've got to
not always look out for your own good and what I will tell you and what I know,
the more you look out for your own good and this is where, this is probably the biggest dichotomy
with this Mackey Vellian attitude. The more you look out for your own good, the worse off you're
going to be. Yeah. And the more you look out for the good of others and the more you look out for
your team and the more you put the mission and your and your people ahead of yourself, the better
off you'll end up in the long run. So that's in complete contrast to what the Mackey Vellian, the
common thought about being Mackey Vellian is. And I will tell you, when I work with companies,
the leaders that put their people ahead of them, the leaders that put their, that put the mission
ahead of themselves, they're always respected. They're always, they're always loved by the troops.
They always have support of the troops and they always go forward and do a good job.
The people that screw the people over, screw the team over, put themselves ahead, their ego's,
those people, those leaders never end up doing well. In the long run, sometimes you can do some
short-term stuff. Hey, I'm gonna screw Echo over and get promoted because I'm gonna, you know,
fill out a report that he didn't, you know, become a rat him out on this thing. Okay. Cool.
I rat you out, but what I don't realize is that you have another friend that's with us. That's
that that's your peer. Yeah. And now he's watching me and there's gonna be a opportunity for him to
rat me out because I miss something or I didn't do something. So if you form good relationships,
if you put your team and your mission and you put others above yourself, you're gonna end up
in a much better position than you will, stabbing people in the back and stepping on people to try
and rise to the top. Yeah. And not only that when you get to the top, you will be much more comfortable,
not only when you look yourself in the mirror, but also when you get to the top and you know that
the people below you and the chain of command actually want you there and actually will do anything
to defend your position up there. Yeah. That's a lot more comfortable than having to constantly
look behind your back and see who's sneaking up behind you. So do the right thing.
Sure. The right thing. Be good leader. Yeah. She worked as good. So kind of in a way it kind of goes
along. Well, really does go along with kind of what you say where like Matt. So okay, back in
L. N. Way, traditionally whatever could be put simply, maybe over simply, but simply looking
out for yourself. Totally. You know, kind of thing. Look out for Matt. What you say and what he ends
up saying is the best way to look out for yourself is to look up for the people. Like always talking
about these people, the people. Yeah. It's a people. So man, it's kind of brings it full circle in a way.
It does bring it full circle. And the full circle answer is take care of your people, take care of
your team. Look out for other people. Don't put yourself first. Yeah. If you do that, you're going to
end up, you might like I said, you might end up stepping up for a moment, but in a long run,
things aren't going to go your way. And even when you are on the top, you're going to be waiting
to get stabbed in the back. Yeah. Not fun. Yeah. Always in the more, more I think about it,
you kind of turned me on to the whole idea of the long game. You know, the more I kind of
open my eyes to like look at things, it kind of seems like playing the short game. Isn't the
smart game. It's totally ignorant. Yeah. Yeah. The short game. So when you figure it, and you can see it
too, where it's so obvious when people are playing the short game. Well, yeah, with everything, with everything.
Yeah. In fact, if you identify any one of your failures or the failures of others, whatever, but
try your own, if you identify any one of them, you'll probably trace it down to your playing the
short game in regards to that many times. You'll see your overweight or whatever you playing the
short game, as far as like what you eat, what you're doing physically or whatever, you're playing
short game. You don't go, what the short term pay out for other than the big long term. Big. Yeah.
So if you can maintain that in your mind, I think play the long game. He'd be doing some good stuff.
Yeah. My opinion. It's a weird dichotomy that if you really want to do well yourself,
and the best thing you can do is take care of your people. Who's not yourself? Yeah, exactly.
It's a dichotomy, but it's the reality. It's a nice little blessing that you get at the end of the
day for trying to take care of people. They'll take care of you. If you take care of people,
they'll take care of you. Then to go one step further, if you take care of yourself,
and give yourself the capability to take care of more people, seems like it's never ending.
Well, if you take care, if you look to this, this is the opposite of what I just said.
The opposite of what I just said is if you take care of yourself as the primary,
you will end up being in a worse position than if you try and take care of other people.
Yeah. That's the reality. So if I'm, if I'm always looking out for me, if I act in the
traditional Mackey-Evelleian way, sure, I might get ahead right now. I might step on it.
I might get a short term when, here and there, long term, I will not be in a better position.
Long term, I will be in a worse position. Yeah. That's the way it is. Yeah, I was thinking more,
you know, the oxygen mask in the plane, you know, putting yourself in for your kids kind of
thing. But you know, it's a total thing, never mind. But everyone's in a while.
Every once in a while, you can find something that has both a short term and a long term.
Be off. Juditsu is one of those things. Short term, long term. Indeed. Big time.
Are there sacrifices? Why wouldn't you take Juditsu? And I'm not saying like,
you know, you, I'm just saying what it, what is the general, I don't have time. Number one. Number two,
there's all because then we want you, want you to get past that one. It's just a whole array of
reasons. I might get hurt. I don't like, I feel claustrophobic, which by the way, isn't even more
reason to do it because you should be trying to overcome that. One of the general intimidation,
you know, that general intimidation. Oh, whatever. Yeah. I don't try and something new. That's kind of like a
big thing. Scary. Yeah. Scary. I'm scared. Need to read Mikey in the dragon's butt. Go ahead.
Yeah. Nonetheless, if when we see fit to start Juditsu, if we haven't started already,
you're going to need a key and a rash card. Maybe some other stuff. No key and a rash card.
Yeah. I'm not perfect. Yeah. That is cool. And then yeah, I can't at me or at least some maths in a friend or
at least a friend. At least. Okay. Yeah. Better than nothing. Yeah. Sure. But when you get the key and people,
yes, people still ask what kind of key should I get? Just start it. What kind of key? Um,
origin, key from origin. Origin main.com. This is where you can browse as many keys as you want. Get more
than one. Um, best keys. Factually the best keys made in America from beginning to end made in America.
Beginning to end of the whole process. Designed by people that do Juditsu. Yeah. Not by a random person
that doesn't train. Yeah. Not by a person that looked in Ikeedow ghee. Yeah. And said, oh yeah, well,
that's no a ghee. Yeah. But a person that says, oh, I do Juditsu. Yeah. Daily. And I need to make the best
possible. I compete in Juditsu and I'm going to make the best possible ghee. Yeah. That's where you
get the origin. Yeah. Well, there you go. You're welcome. And then we're going to make it in America.
Yeah. I wish I knew that before I bought my first ghee. I bought from the academy. Did I buy it
from the academy? Yeah. I bought it from the academy. The boxing club. Mm-hmm. Yeah. It's a worst
guy, right? Ever. Yeah. And here's the thing. And that's, that's what geese are like. Yeah. That's
the right. I didn't know. I didn't know. So then I bought like I went and I saw one from a guy.
I got one on that. I was like, oh, that looks cool. The logo looks cool. Even when I felt it,
I was like, oh, that looks beefy. Yeah. I went and got mine and it was like, it shrunk a little
bit too much. And it was like, it didn't fit that good. It was like, there were some scenarios where
it felt like a straight jacket. Mm-hmm. And which, you know, it depends on who you are, whatever,
but it was just so thick and maybe might have been too small. I don't know. But nonetheless,
no point did me in the right direction. That's the point. That's the point. Yes. Now you're being told.
So now you are telling people, doing the telling? Yes. You don't want to be in a straight jacket.
No, you don't want to be in a very comfortable comfortable. Which you are.
Fun highly skilled at assessing confidence. I see you speak to you. Yeah.
But here's the thing in jujitsu. If the ghee is comfortable, that's a good thing. I mean, hey,
if you're a song weirdo savage, who's like, you know what, that's going to be part of my training
to put on an uncomfortable ghee and hearted in my mind. There was a dude that used to train with
a wetsuit under his ghee just for discomfort level. Dartanian. He's still a jujitsu guy. He's out there.
He was like, he's on a hagsis training partner's park and jujitsu. Yeah. But he's still out there.
So is that kind of like the guys who are the the restricts. Yeah, the oxygen mask. I mean, whatever.
Well, you don't put on a wetsuit very often. But wetsuits are slightly, especially this is
this is 20 years ago that that this guy was putting on a wetsuit and training. And wetsuit have
come a long way. They're much more comfortable now and much more pliable. But back in the day,
you put on a three millimeter wetsuit. It was it was it was restricting your mobility. So just
do that in training, be hot and sweaty and uncomfortable. That's next level. Put the wetsuit on
underneath your orange and ghee. If you want more discomfort, there's your there's your answer.
Oh, right. If you're training for that. Yeah. I say 100% don't do that. That's what I would recommend.
No, I know you wouldn't recommend that. But it is kind of hardcore. It is hard cry. There's a certain
legitimate level of respect to have for Dartanian. Dartanian doing that. Dang. That's kind of
he's out there, man. There's a two. Did you get to just strong as hell? Yeah, just where in a wetsuit.
Good. Hey, man. legit. There's other stuff at origin too. Yeah. Like T-shirts and sweatshirts and
and by the way, we're gonna have jeans. We have jeans right now. What we do. Well, I do. Yeah,
because I lost them. I looked. I don't know. Yeah, I know you don't have a, you will get some soon.
But anyways, just like the ghee is awesome. Here's the problem with the ghee. You can't wear a ghee to
the store. Yeah. You can't wear a ghee to the restaurant. I mean, you can't technically,
but you wouldn't do that. So, you know, talking to Peter, I'm like, Pete, I love my origin geese.
I, I would, an origin geer on the house, maybe a little bit, right? But I said, Pete, I can't go out.
I need, I need, I need jeans. I need something. And jeans, guess what you can do in jeans?
Or I'm to the restaurant. You can wear them anywhere. You can swing a hammer when you're wearing jeans.
You can pour concrete when you're wearing jeans. You can go to the restaurant when you're wearing jeans.
Or jeans. Origin jeans. Coming. Very soon, we will have them available on the website
to pre, or, I think we're gonna do like a pre-order thing, just because we want to know how many to make.
But yeah, they will just start making them as fast we can. So made in America. What? The denim
itself compromised made in America. So the buttons American. What is things called that you,
that you fast enough to top the jeans, buttons. Yeah, the buttons. They will pass. The brass are made in
America. Everything's made in America. And they're sewn up in Maine by
serious craftsmen, legit crafts people. Yeah. American denim then straight up, bringing it back.
Bring it back. Origin, Maine, or German, also supplements. It's your been, man. I've been
just doing with the supplements. Right. Well, you're on the program right now.
Back on the program, like I'm back in G2, my arm is healed, but it's like really susceptible to
10 the night. It is, you know, like this kind of special with a twisting stuff. I don't know if I'm ready
for like any kind of legitimate ghee situation, but so after training, you could stiff.
Right. Just pound joint warfare, crew oil, whatever. Next day I'm like cool, but the day after that,
good to go. Yeah. It's like, yeah. It's good. Amazing. Then the last, but yes, joint warfare,
it's joint warfare is what it is for your joints. Keeps it together.
Crow oil. Same deal. Discipline. Just I've been on the discipline. You, you do a little bit.
You said to me like, because yesterday I trained kind of hard in that G2, and you said,
you were asking me what kind of G2 training feels best. And then you named a couple times.
A couple different types. And then one of them you said was like a three scoop of discipline.
Day. Yeah. Does it last like a the highest level? That was the highest level of good G2
day. Yes. It's three scoops of discipline. Yeah. Which, by the way, you can get in traffic thunder
flavor now. Yeah. I'm on that. We're waiting for a cease and disist level letter from a
from Jack Black. Yeah. Who is in traffic thunder? Robert Downey Jr. In Robert Downey Jr.
And Bench. Still. Stiller. Yeah, man. Well, until then, I'm still. Then we're just going to get
in a traffic thunder. Yes. It's good. I actually like that flavor very much. And I like the, you know,
the cognitive enhancement. Some stir. I'm just do the three. I'm going to try the three and
back on the program. I'm going to do the three. Oh, three scoops of discipline. Scoops. Yeah.
I did scoops. Uh, two scoops of the day. What do I want to win? It's good. Like it. What day?
Peter. Wednesday. Okay. What about Sunday? Oh, yeah. Sunday. Sunday. Sunday. Yeah.
Well, that discipline. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I sense the little bit of urgency. Yeah. Yeah. You know,
actually made me move. I was pretty impressed. That's actually the best I can hold for.
Right now. But hey, we're doing it one step at a time. You know, we're moving forward. Also,
if you want some additional protein in addition to your steak steak or sushi,
whatever, you know, whatever you gig is drink mok drink it every day if you have to. Okay. I
have I have talked about this before, but I stepped it up. Okay. So you can also get warrior kid mok,
which is for kids. It's got to it's it's the best possible thing you can feed a kid. They edited this out
when a tie was down doing the the week in the life of Jocco. Sure. I was like, I said something
along reliance of hey, when you're feeding your kids, when you're feeding your kids,
a soda, that's child abuse. I was going off. But so that's why I made warrior kid mok. So I'm
warrior kid mok because I have a bunch of kids myself and it's really hard to get kukids to eat
good food because it's either you don't have time to prepare it or you run and later you
whatever. Or so we made warrior kid mok. Yeah. Here's the thing. It tastes delicious. Here's what
it did yesterday. My daughter, she was making her dessert strawberries. I said here, let me,
can she usually take strawberries. She puts a whip cream on it and then she sprinkles warrior kid mok
on the top like a little dusting. It's really good. We had no whip cream yesterday. So I said,
hey, we got some heavy whip and cream and I've done this before, but I actually got the tool out
the proper mixing tool that spins real fast. Yeah. What's it called? Well, there's a bunch of
one but the one that I am familiar with is called the magic wand. Okay, mine wasn't that one.
The magic wand? Oh, no. This is like an oil, it's electric. It wasn't gas powered. But it just
like the traditional thing that you saw in the 50s, a little two little things that spin together
and you saw the egg meter. Yeah. Like an egg meter. So I'm sitting there with the egg meter. So I put in
heavy whip and cream and then I put two scoops of strawberry warrior kid mok whipped it.
Dude, it's ridiculous. It's completely ridiculous. And then put that on strawberry
yeah, it's like a whip cream. It's like whipped cream. So this is a whole another thing. This might
start a whole another sort of cultural revolution in this nation from our children. When they just
are eating warrior kid whipped mok cream, it's amazing. So anyways, give that a try. Interesting that
yeah, the egg meter, well, the magic wand is it's not, it's like maybe from the 80s. It's like a
it looks like. Yeah, you just stick it in your drink. Yeah, it makes whip. You can make like mail with
whatever. But from what I understand, I don't know, nonetheless. Yeah, it would have been
interesting to imagine you with one of those because it is kind of a dainty apparatus. So get some
of that get some of that mok for yourself or your children. Yes, all on originmain.com. Also
jocco has a store. It's called jocco store. And jocco store.com. So this is where you can get more
rash guards. Rash guards that represent the path. I'm putting a new rash guard on there. Kind of
obvious once saying stand by to get some because it applies to you. It's a little bit of time.
Anyway, some new stuff. I was wearing a rash guard when I was working out this morning. Yeah, when I was
everything. Yeah, when I do, when I do a lot of ring work, when I'm using the rings,
yeah, sometimes you know you get the chief going on. Right, because the straps. So sometimes on this
particular day, and I did have a rash guard on this morning. Good. Also T-shirts. Shirts on there,
represent truckers hats and flex fit. By the way, or beanies. Sure. Check. Patches on there. I know
we were out of patches. We were. Okay. Sorry. I should have done a better job of paying attention to that.
Yeah, no, no, no. And no, it was my fault. And no, no, completely my fault thing. This is what I'm
going to do to rectify it, ordered more patches. We've got more patches in at this time. Also some
women stuff on there, some hoodies on there. It's basically, if you want to represent the path
that you're on that we're on, boom, that's where you can do it clothing was. Jocquist or dot com. That's why I
see it. Like that's how I see it as a whole. That's what it is. And subtle representation of the path
can also be done. Yes. On that store, you can check it out for yourself and see some subtle
representation of the. Yeah, deep. How should I say, deep representation? You know,
check. Yeah, jocquistorkort dot com and jocquity. What up with it?
Taste delicious is completely good for you. Isn't it weird that people would make foods that are
not completely good for you, but yet most people make foods that are not completely good for you.
Yes, jocquity is completely good for you. Well, it goes back to that. Yeah. Taste delicious.
Got a little caffeine, little hitter. It's not going to get you crazy. It's not a, it's not an energy
drink that makes you psychopath. Makes you addicted to caffeine. No, it's not that. It's gives you a nice little
hitter, little caffeine hitter, Theo. Yeah. Well, yeah, I mean, I wouldn't even say the caffeine is
significant. It's not nothing. No, it's 60 milligrams. That's that's that's lowered in a cup of coffee.
A two thirds of a cup of coffee. Yeah, that's something. Yeah, you feel it. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But it's actually good for you. Yeah, and that's the thing going back to, you know, the short term,
long term or long game, short game. Yeah, that's the reason people sell food, drinks, whatever that
are not good for you. Because they're selling to the short game players. Yeah. The one that tastes good with
all the sugars and whatnot. Don't get on that path. No, don't even play that game. No, we're not playing
that game anymore. Jocquity, you can get it with tea bags or you can get it with in a can. Yes,
and I have lots of cans and I just crack them open and get after it. And obviously everyone already knows
that you get a 8,000 pound dead left with that. So check. There it is. Bill morning. I was on. Yeah.
And the store also subscribe to the podcast blah blah blah. Thank you. God of no waiting for you.
Do that. Also check out the Warrior Kid podcast. You might, you probably know about this podcast
because you're listening to it. You don't know about the Warrior Kid podcast. Warrior Kid podcast is
awesome. I think I think so too. So check out the Warrior Kid podcast. Also check out Warrior
Kid soap at irishowch ranch.com. Young aid news of Warrior Kid up there. Making soap, building a
business, creating a brand. Yep. But most of all, milk and goats and turn it into something usable.
That's what I like. Working hard. Right. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about. Don't forget about
YouTube. We have a YouTube channel. It's called Jocobardcast. Yes. It's called Jocobardcast. This is where
Echo puts all these videos. He puts them on there, including these full podcast and including
excerpts and including enhanced excerpts that he goes all crazy with his old digital CGI stuff and
makes no mistakes. Well, sure. Sometimes also psychological warfare. You know what that is. I know
well, I know what that is. We're waiting for psychological warfare too. But in the unlikely event that
you don't know what it is. This is what it's. It's an album with tracks, jockel tracks, jockel talking
to you telling you telling us really how to get past these moments a week. That's cool in our journey
on the poem. Lifting. Cool. Wait, cool. Whatever we got to do. I gave you. I let you talk about that
right now. And you know what, you know what, I just figured this out. This is why you're like, yeah,
yeah, that's what it is. But move on kind of attitude. You know what? Because you don't use that.
You're not going to play the MP3 of yourself telling yourself, well, I don't know, maybe do,
but I don't think you do. You already have that MP3 embedded in your brain already. In fact,
that's what it is. Clearly what it is. But I do. So I know that. Yeah, you don't more than me.
Because it's weird because sometimes I do. And it's sort of like, it's sort of like the
the the Disponucleus Realme field manual. I did write that book, but sometimes I have to refer to it.
Yeah, sometimes I have to refer to it. And I'll tell you what, it's good. It's good to be able to
refer to something that actually states in no uncertain terms, the direction of the path and where
you need to walk, we need to move. It's very, there's a lot of clarity in it. And that's powerful
to be able to refer to something back like that. Yeah. So yeah, fully and yeah. So psychological
or first thing. When I listen to it, it definitely has an impact. There's no doubt about it.
Yeah. When you get psychological warfare and you click it, yeah, it's going to get through to you.
It almost like, I'm trying to imagine this right now. Like, let's say, okay, you know how
the night before you might have this problem, you might not, I don't know. But Leena,
the night before you're like, hey, I know you probably don't actually, hey, this is what I'm going to do tomorrow.
I'm going to take care of your business. I'm going to work out this at this time and I'm
do some business and then tomorrow come to like dang, I'm kind of not in the mood for that. So I'm
just going to, I want to do that today. I'll skip that. I'll opt out of that today because I'm not in the
mood or whatever. But what if you, if you have like a audio file of yourself telling you, hey,
this is why you should do this. Yeah, it would bring you back, I think. Yeah. Even if it's yourself,
you know, huh, interesting, interesting little phenomena, never explored that. Nonetheless,
good, psychological warfare. It's called psychological warfare. It's on, you know, Amazon,
iTunes, where we can get the artist is juggle. It's to be an artist. Psychological warfare,
too, is going to be released to be decided. The first track is going to be,
don't hesitate in making psychological warfare, too. Yeah, I can play it to myself. Deal. Yeah.
Anyway, also, in your path on the path we're working out, boom, go to onit.com slash juggle.
This is where you can get more, whether it be workout equipment or, you know,
anything that you might need to add to your capability and workouts, health,
knowledge on the path. This is where you go. Go on it.com slash juggle. Good stuff on there. Really
good stuff. Scott some stuff together. Speaking of stuff, we got Mikey in the Dragon's book for
kids. All ages between three and three hundred. So you can get that. You can get
way the warrior kid and marks mission to books teaching kids how to be on the path.
You got discipline because freedom which I just talked about.
Teaching adults how to go on the path and stay on the path. The audio that is on iTunes,
Amazon music, Google Play, Extreme Ownership, the first book that I wrote with my brother,
Lave Babin. It's about leadership and that is followed up by the dichotomy of leadership,
which actually goes granular on the nuances of Extreme Ownership. So check that one out and
real quick back to Mikey in the Dragons. This, what's good about this book, and I was talking
about Lave talking about Lave about this morning. It applies to everything for a kid.
Because kids have to think about it. When you're a kid, when you're a kid facing the world,
everything is hard. Everything is scary. So you have all these fears to overcome and Mikey in
the Dragons, Lave's Lave throws that at his son. He says, hey, got to face these dragons and
fire them. You know? And that's what you do. You learn these lessons and it's a life lesson.
So Mikey in the Dragons gets some of that. What else? Escelon front? Speaking of Lave,
this is our leadership consultancy and what we do is solve problems through leadership. Me,
Lave Babin, J.P. to Nell, Dave Burke, Flynn, Cochrane, Mike's Rally, Mike Biamah.
If you're having problems with your team, with your company, with your organization, with your
business and you want to turn those problems around, the problems are leadership problems. That's what
they are. Every problem you have is a leadership problem. Go to echelonfront.com. If you want us to
come and help you solve those problems, we solve problems through leadership. The master,
speaking of leadership is a leadership conference event that we have 2019, May 23rd and 24th
Chicago, September 19th and 20th Denver, December 4th and 5th Sydney, Australia.
Go to extremownership.com. If you want to come to one of those events, they have all sold out.
And these are going to sell it to the last one we did in San Francisco. They've all sold out.
But the one we just did in San Francisco, I had people calling me 10 days out personal friends.
I was like, hey, I just want to bring three people from my team and I'm like, oh, it's cool. No,
you can't come. We have a fire code. We cannot bring you into the building. Stop. Don't, don't come.
Because you know, you know, some people just figure you like, oh, you can just squeeze me in there.
Yeah, I just stand on the edge. I actually can't do that. Yeah.
They're all, they all have sold out. They're all going to sell out. So go there and register as
quick as you can. EF online is live is launched. What is that? I'll tell you what, if you can't
make it to a master or you can't afford to go to the master or you can't afford to bring 12 people
from your team to the master. EF online. That's what EF online is. We, the original intent of
EF online was to be able to train people without having them have to come to the master.
Given the same experience, given the same knowledge about having to come to the master.
So we did it. And EF online.com interactive. You get the briefs. You get to go through scenarios.
It's, it's powerful. It's way more powerful than I thought it was going to be. And I thought it was
going to be good, but it's better than I thought it was going to be. Yeah, it's interesting too.
Because I went through it. I went through it. You know, I was like, oh, yeah, you know, like,
cool. This is like just like what we talked about at the master or what you guys said about the
master, what I listened to. And then it's cool because at sort of at the end of the sections or
whatever, there's like a little quiz. I think the way the thing came out and we're continuing to
to work on it and we're continuing to upload new modules. So like, oh, and what's, and the other,
so one of the reasons that we made it was to, was to help people that weren't coming that
couldn't have come to the master, whether they were overseas or they couldn't afford it.
I didn't couldn't get time off. The other major demand signal was we work with giant companies
that have 100,000 employees. And I had one particular company with over 100,000 employees
said to me, hey, well, we want you to train every employee we have. And this was two years ago.
And I didn't have a good answer for them. And I don't like having to not have an
a good answer. Oh, you want me to travel globally for the next six months to all your different
factories. And it wasn't six months. It was probably going to take three and a half months or something
like that. That's not feasible. Like I can't just go off the grid everywhere else, not
recording podcasts, be traveling the world, the training people. Right? That's not going to happen.
So what are we going to do? EF online. Yeah. And so we got an enterprise with it too where you
can have your whole company training. And it's awesome. It's awesome. So get your people online. That's
EF online. And of course, one last thing, EF Overwatch. This is us connecting
proven, lead combat leaders from special operations and from combat aviation. And we're
bringing them into companies that need leadership in their organization to get problem solved.
Go to EF Overwatch.com. You want people that know and understand extreme ownership, no one
understand the laws of combat. No one understand how to balance that economy of leadership.
Go to EF Overwatch.com. Whether you're a person that's trying to hire or a person that's trying
to get hired if you're one of those vets going sign up there. And if you have anything to communicate
with us, we can be found on the interwebs on Twitter, on Instagram, and on the fish shbuki.
Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Joko Willink. And finally, thanks to all of our military
personnel out there for training hard and for holding the line as always against evil around the
globe. And also thanks to our uniform personnel here on the home front. And that includes police and
law enforcement firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and correctional officers and boarder
patrol and all first responders. Thank you and to everyone else out there.
Like Macievelli says in his book, not the one that you've heard about, but what he actually
says guard yourself from flattery by demanding the truth, especially the truth from yourself
and choose good people to be around you and set a good example by acting with courage and gravity
and fortitude and study the art of war. It's rules and it's discipline and keep your body
accustomed to the hardships and exercise your intellect with reading and last but not least.
Even when the weather is fair. In fact, especially when the weather is fair, make provisions
build defenses and barriers and dams and canals and protection protections against the rising
waters of misfortune. So even when things go wrong, you are ready to get out there and get after it.
And until next time, this is echo and jocco out.